MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: We're going to begin this hour with one of the key players who was instrumental in hammering out this week's nuclear framework deal with Iran. U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz was brought in at the tail end of negotiations to settle vital technical details. Moniz is a nuclear physicist, a longtime professor at MIT, and he joins me now here in the studio. Welcome to the program. ERNEST MONIZ: Thank you, Melissa. BLOCK: Describe a bit the mood in the rooms there in Switzerland in these intense, through-the-night talks in the final days. The March 31 deadline came and went. What was it like? MONIZ: It was often very, very testy, to be sure. But also I would say very professional. Certainly, in my focus with Dr. Salehi, who was the head of the Iran Atomic Energy Organization, they were very professional and very problem-solving oriented. But, you know, these are tough issues. We were asking for and required a very significant curtailment of their program as they were, of course, very interested in things like sanctions relief. So it was difficult, but I would say it was always with respect and a desire to get it done. BLOCK: Were there a lot of times when you thought this deal is not going to happen? We're going to go home empty-handed. MONIZ: Yes (laughter). BLOCK: Yes, many times. MONIZ: Many times in the last several days. I mean, we thought we were at impasses, but somehow we would find a way that would satisfy our mutual needs and got it done. BLOCK: From a technical standpoint, we heard President Obama call this a good deal yesterday. Technically, why is it a good deal? What specifically? MONIZ: It's a good deal because it satisfies our need to block all four pathways to a nuclear weapon should Iran choose to do it, which, of course, they have said they won't. But (laughter) that's not our—that's not the way we approached this. We have to do this on verification. That's two pathways to uranium, one pathway to plutonium and the covert pathways. I can describe any of those, but that's the key. Next is the issue of should there be a violation of the agreement, we need to know that fast. And third, we want to have, in that event, enough time to respond diplomatically or through any other means that are required. And we believe we have accomplished that as well. BLOCK: There is a really interesting confluence here because when you were starting teaching at MIT, the Iranian, now Iran's top nuclear physicist, was then a graduate student at MIT. Do you think that had a bearing on the talks, the fact that you shared that history? I know you brought him some MIT swag when you went to Switzerland. MONIZ: (Laughter) That's right. Well, because in the—in our second meeting, he had a wonderful event—his first grandchild was born, a granddaughter. And so I was able to get an MIT logoed beaver (laughter) for her crib. So no, I think that really helped in terms of a personal relationship because it really helped us to get into, I think, a very good relationship for discussing these trade-offs. BLOCK: Was there one issue that seems to be the toughest sticking point and maybe the toughest sticking point going forward? MONIZ: Well, in the domain in which I was focused I think it's very clear, and it was expected, that the hardest issue would be the future of the R&D program for next-generation centrifuges. BLOCK: And where did you end up on that? MONIZ: Well, we ended up in what we obviously think is a satisfactory place. There will be no contribution from the advanced R&D program to lowering what we call the breakout time for at least 10 years. BLOCK: Breakout time, meaning the amount of the time taken... MONIZ: Breakout time is the time it would take if they chose to go all-out for generating the material for a nuclear weapon—for a first nuclear weapon. And we have required that to be at least one year for at least 10 years. And our—the parameters that we have put out in the last day would accomplish that. BLOCK: And, of course, much needs to happen before the next deadline, June 30. MONIZ: Correct. There will be a lot to do, both on the technical side in terms of getting all of this worked out and also on things like what is the phasing of sanctions relief? But I want to say one thing, which I think will make it at least somewhat easier, and that is that the level of specificity in these parameters, I think, surprised a lot of people because it is quite more specific than one would normally get. Being specific now means we did not kick the can down the road, and it should help facilitate convergence within three months to the final agreement. BLOCK: Dr. Moniz, thanks for coming in. MONIZ: Thank you. BLOCK: That's Ernest Moniz, the U.S. energy secretary, a key player in the nuclear talks with Iran that resulted in a framework agreement in Switzerland yesterday. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: As we just heard, Energy Secretary Moniz sounding optimistic about the prospect of reaching a final deal with Iran. But what about Congress? That's the starting point for our Friday commentators, David Brooks of The New York Times. Hey there, David. DAVID BROOKS, BYLINE: Hello, how are you? CORNISH: Sitting in for E J Dionne this week, Jonathan Capehart of The Washington Post. Welcome, Jonathan. JONATHAN CAPEHART: Hi, thank you. CORNISH: So I want to actually play a part of President Obama's speech announcing the framework for the Iran nuclear deal. The president says he welcomes robust debate. Here's how he laid the groundwork for that conversation. (SOUNDBITE OF SPEECH) PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: When you hear the inevitable critics of the deal sound off, ask them a simple question—do you really think that this verifiable deal, if fully implemented, backed by the world's major powers, is a worse option than the risk of another war in the Middle East? CORNISH: David, is that a good starting point to come back with? BROOKS: Well, it's bogus (laughter). You know, those are not the options. I don't think anybody wants a war. The real issue is do we further isolate and weaken the Iranian regime or do we sign this deal, which will have some inspections but allow them to have a lot more money, and in 10 or 15 years allow some sort of breakout? And to me, this is a poor regime that spends its money funding terrorist organizations around the world, funding IEDs that kill Americans, that believes in a very apocalyptic, extreme religious ideology and that we are essentially going to be allowing them to make a lot more money to do the things that is in their core mission to do. David Petraeus said Iran is not the solution in the Middle East, it's the problem. And so it's going to face a lot of problems, I think—this deal. And the president, you know, he's going to try to make his case in Congress. I think he's going to find a fair bit of skepticism. CORNISH: Jonathan, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin was on our show yesterday, and he said, if President Obama thinks this is such a good deal, to come before the American people, come before Congress. CAPEHART: That's a good point. But the thing that I think members of Congress aren't fully appreciating, and that the American people need to fully appreciate, is that this wasn't a one-on-one negotiation. This was not a negotiation between the United States and Iran. It was the United States plus six other countries sitting around a table, hammering out. Each country having its own interests and its own desires in this deal. And while it is not as stringent as the president first set out, it is—well, we should talk about it's not a deal, it's a framework of a deal that is actually a lot stronger than people thought it would be when things were being leaked out over the last few weeks. BROOKS: And I have to just pick up on what Jonathan was just saying. I'm skeptical, with a lot of—especially Republicans in Congress are really skeptical of the deal. As a member of the United States Congress, do you really want to blow up an international agreement? I do sort of think they're in a bit of a box. And it would take a lot of guts or something or disruption to really blow up this deal. So I've—at the end of the day, I happen to think that Congress, as much as they hate this deal, Republicans especially, they may actually accede to it. CORNISH: Meanwhile, our political writer online says—noted a Pew Research poll that found 73 percent of Americans knew little or nothing at all about negotiations with Iran, so public opinion not quite yet baked in. I want to turn to some domestic news and this quote... (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) MIKE PENCE: Was I expecting this kind of backlash? Heavens no. CORNISH: That's Indiana Governor Mike Pence in the aftermath of the backlash to the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The law was passed in his state and then amended after many days of outcry, of people saying the bill, perceived as having—perceived as being discriminatory against gays and lesbians. David, this opposition was bolstered by business interests. The NCAA, Apple spoke out against Indiana's law—Walmart in Arkansas with their version of the law. What are we looking at in terms of the balance between social conservatives and the business part of the party? BROOKS: Well, the business part of the party is part of the country where gay marriage and gay rights have won a great victory. And that's mostly the urban and suburban part of the country, and among the young. And so the question now, it seems to be, in promoting gay rights, gay marriage and full dignity for everybody is, how are you going to win people over who live in the rural and conservative parts of the country? And my question would be, do you want to start a culture war? Do you want to have a situation where a lot of religious people think that the gay rights movement is against religion or is hostile to religion? Or are people being coerced into taking pictures of—working gay weddings as photographers or as bakers or whatever the issue is? And to me that's counterproductive. The gay rights movement has tremendous momentum. Turning it into a culture war, a much more confrontational war, seems to me makes it a lot harder to make progress in places like rural Indiana, rural Iowa, rural Mississippi. CAPEHART: But it was a—culture war, maybe, but it's an issue of fairness. One of the reasons why—and probably the reason why—the Indiana Religious Freedom Law blew up in Governor Pence's face is because it did not mirror the federal law, which was much more narrowly tailored. The Indiana law did two things. It applied to private business. They would be able to assert a right to the exercise of freedom of religion. And it shielded private businesses from civil rights litigation that was usually only able to be brought by government, then would be applied to private business. So while it did not allow discrimination against gays and lesbians, if a gay and lesbian couple were to take a private business to court, they wouldn't have any standing. CORNISH: But, Jonathan, very quickly, are all claims of religious liberty covers for anti-gay bigotry? That's the argument David has made in a column this week. CAPEHART: Yes, and I read that. And I don't—it could be. The Indiana law—the Indiana law certainly. But let's keep in mind there are about 19, 20 other states that have religious freedom laws, and there hasn't been an outcry because those laws have protections in place that would make it possible for same-sex couples or gay and lesbian people to have legal recourse. CORNISH: David? BROOKS: Well, the Indiana law, Jonathan's right, it goes further than the others. And if that was the argument that was being made, that it goes too far; we should scale it back, I'd be fine with that. To me, the issue is progress. It's like Abraham Lincoln. I'm not drawing the parallel. But Abraham Lincoln knew when to push abolitionism. It was clearly a moral right. But sometimes you got to push it gently. Sometimes you put your foot on the brakes, sometimes on the gas. It's a matter of, pragmatically, how do you move forward and make life easier for gays and lesbians who happen to grow up in rural conservative areas? CAPEHART: And in this case, in Indiana, it wasn't government that was pushing. It was private business that was pushing—Apple, Marriott, Walmart. CORNISH: Well, as you guys say, this is just one conversation in a long one. David Brooks of The New York Times and Jonathan Capehart of The Washington Post. Thank you both. BROOKS: Thank you. CAPEHART: Thank you. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: There's new evidence today that the co-pilot of the Germanwings flight deliberately crashed it into the French Alps. Last week, the cockpit voice recorder indicated that the aircraft's captain had been locked out of the flight deck. Now a preliminary reading of the aircraft's flight data recorder confirms that the co-pilot set the controls for a rapid descent into the ground, killing all 150 people onboard. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley reports from Paris. ELEANOR BEARDSLEY, BYLINE: It was the piece of evidence they'd been searching for—the flight data recorder, which gives the details of the plane's operating systems and records the movement of its controls, had been found. Search crews dug up the device, blackened and damaged, but still readable, beneath rocks and rubble on Thursday. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) BRICE ROBIN: (Speaking French). BEARDSLEY: Last night, the man heading the investigation, Marseille prosecutor Brice Robin, said the sound recorder would provide all the details of the flight from Barcelona until the crash. And today, the French crash investigation agency announced that the flight data recorder does show that the pilot in the cockpit used automatic pilot to descend to an altitude of 100 feet. The crash site is 6,000 feet above sea level, and investigators said the person in the cockpit accelerated the speed of that dissent by increasing it several times during the last eight minutes of the flight. Marseille prosecutor Robin said more details would emerge as the two data boxes are synchronized. He underlined French investigators' conviction that co-pilot Andreas Lubitz was conscious until the moment of impact because he appears to have acted repeatedly to stop an excessive speed alarm from sounding and his breathing can be heard throughout. In Germany, investigators are looking into Lubitz's mental state. What they're finding supports the physical evidence of the crash. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) CHRISTOPH KUMPA: (Speaking German) Danach hat sich der Nutzer zum einen... BEARDSLEY: Duesseldorf prosecutor spokesman Christoph Kumpa said Lubitz's computer shows he'd been researching cockpit door lock systems and ways to commit suicide. On Wednesday, the CEO of Lufthansa and its low-cost carrier Germanwings visited the crash site. The two men laid a wreath at a memorial in a field below the mountains. Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr said his company would do everything possible to help the families of the victims. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) CARSTEN SPOHR: We're just very, very sorry that such a terrible accident could have happened in Lufthansa where we put so much focus on safety. BEARDSLEY: Lufthansa also admitted this week that Lubitz had told the company in an email in 2009 about his severe depression just before being readmitted to a pilot training program. Even before the crash, Lufthansa was struggling with pilot strikes, financial losses and increasing competition. Now it has to deal with a growing pile of evidence that it let a potentially dangerous person fly one of its passenger planes. Eleanor Beardsley, NPR News, Paris. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: April is an awkward time for the movie industry. That lull when the Oscar buzz is gone and summer blockbuster season has yet to start. And our critic Bob Mondello says that makes it the perfect time for movies that might not get noticed during the busier times of the year. He points the two based-in-reality movies that opened this week—"Woman In Gold" and "Effie Gray." BOB MONDELLO: In the opening shots of the "Woman In Gold," the gold, which is to say real gold leaf, is being cut and brushed and applied to a canvas. Gustav Klimt is painting a young Viennese woman in 1907. And as he gilds her portrait with tiny sheets of that most precious of metals, the painting acquires a shimmering otherworldly air. It is a breathtaking work of modernist art and one that deserves an artful movie, which is not quite what it gets in "Woman In Gold," a story about the decades-long battle for ownership of what's sometimes called the Austrian Mona Lisa. From Klimt's studio the film flashes forward to 1990s California where Maria Altmann, who fled Austria during World War II, has begun working family connections to find a lawyer. When she does, she shows him a photograph of the painting. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "WOMAN IN GOLD") HELEN MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) Oh, here she is. MONDELLO: In an art history book. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "WOMAN IN GOLD") MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) My Aunt Adele—she was taken off the walls of our home by the Nazis. And since then she's been hanging in the Belvedere Gallery in Vienna. RYAN REYNOLDS: (As Randol Schoenberg) And now you'd like to be reunited. MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) Wouldn't that be lovely? REYNOLDS: (As Randol Schoenberg) Make you a rich woman, I'm sure. MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) You think that's what this is about. No, I have to do what I can to keep these memories alive. MONDELLO: Now, if that sounds like a screenwriter setting out an agenda, it is. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "WOMAN IN GOLD") MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) Because people forget, you see, especially the young. MONDELLO: An agenda for a film that wants to be educational, part World War II refresher course, part restitution law primer. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "WOMAN IN GOLD") MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) And then, of course, there's justice. MONDELLO: And biggest part—moral lesson. Director Simon Curtis is lucky to have Helen Mirren on hand since she can turn the film's art history speeches into something that sounds like conversation. But the screenplay doesn't do either of them any favors—forever spelling out exactly what's at stake as it flashes back and forth between the young Maria escaping wartime Austria and Mirren's older Maria confronting Austrian bureaucrats, who are as two-dimensional as the painting they're determined to hang on to. Happily, the star and her young lawyer, played by Ryan Reynolds, establish an odd couple routine that keeps things lively. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "WOMAN IN GOLD") MIRREN: (As Maria Altmann) You are quite rude, you're a little uncouth and you are completely disinterested in the past. REYNOLDS: (As Randol Schoenberg) And you have an unusual talent for making me feel good about myself. MONDELLO: Which is useful when the plot gets bogged down in legalities, and the "Woman In Gold" becomes less about art than about courtroom speeches about art. The courts have also figured in the story of "Effie Gray," though behind the scenes, where a pair of lawsuits delayed the picture's release by more than a year. Effie, played by Dakota Fanning, was a Scottish youngster who considered herself wildly fortunate to be wooed and wed by influential art critic John Ruskin in 1848, until she got to the home he shared with his parents. Ruskin's mom, it turns out, was a bit too devoted to her son. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "EFFIE GRAY") UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: (As character) Mrs. Ruskin's just putting him into a bath. She's been aching to get her hands on him. MONDELLO: And then came the wedding night. Effie approached their marriage bed for the first time, let her nightgown fall to the floor and watched as her new husband's eyes widened in horror—Victorian jitters perhaps. And that's where things stood for a good long time. Screenwriter and co-star Emma Thompson shows Effie doing her best to be a dutiful wife, but after five years, finally coming clean about what's going on. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "EFFIE GRAY") EMMA THOMPSON: (As Lady Eastlake) Let me understand you. You are telling me that you still to this day do not understand the details of the most intimate relation within marriage. You have not experienced them. DAKOTA FANNING: (As Effie Gray) He has never so much as touched me. MONDELLO: Thompson steers Effie to a doctor who examines her. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "EFFIE GRAY") ROBBIE COLTRANE: (As doctor) I'm perfectly thunderstruck. UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: (As character) He must be mad. MONDELLO: Then a lawyer weighs in. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "EFFIE GRAY") UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: (As lawyer) Her madness, unfortunately is not sufficient grounds for divorce. If it were, half the marriages in London would be in jeopardy. MONDELLO: And while you'd think the arrival of a handsome young artist in the household to paint Ruskin's portrait would move things along, even he's trying to protect Effie's virtue. (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, "EFFIE GRAY") TOM STURRIDGE: (As Everett Millais) John, you can't leave her on her own with me. GREG WISE: (As John Ruskin) Yes, I realize it's a bore, Everett. STURRIDGE: (As Everett Millais) No, not at all. I'm talking about the impropriety. WISE: (As John Ruskin) Oh, for heaven's sake. STURRIDGE: (As Everett Millais) John, you seem to pay no mind to the safety of your wife's reputation, to leave her entirely alone with another man, single man. MONDELLO: Yet, that's what he does and nature does finally take its course—happily for Effie and happily for our audiences, at the attractively shot, appealingly acted and decorously eye-opening biopic "Effie Gray." I'm Bob Mondello. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: Community policing is getting new attention as protests over police shootings continue around the country. One of the latest incidents happened last month in Madison, Wis. A biracial 19-year-old man was fatally shot by a white police officer. Demonstrations quickly followed. (SOUNDBITE OF PROTEST) UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE: (Chanting) Hey, hey, ho, ho. These killer cops have got to go. UNIDENTIFIED MAN #1: We're here today to say that this must stop, and it must stop now. BLOCK: As cities and states look to enact police department reforms, we're going to hear why leaders look to a different city in Wisconsin as a model. Here's NPR's Cheryl Corley. CHERYL CORLEY, BYLINE: Rebuilding trust—that's what many of the proposals aimed at revamping police departments hope to do. Karen Freeman-Wilson, the mayor of Gary, Ind., is a head of a working group of mayors and police chiefs examining police practices. And she says one of their first recommendations is about how to create trust between police and the neighborhoods they patrol. KAREN FREEMAN-WILSON: There ought to be activities involving the police and the community that don't involve any form of detention or traditional law enforcement actions. CORLEY: Freeman-Wilson says that can help create relationships that serve both the police and communities when there's a crisis. And she says it's a practice that works. FREEMAN-WILSON: Oh, absolutely. We've seen it work. We've seen it work in communities where there has been distrust in the past. CORLEY: One of her examples is Racine, Wis., which was among one of the first waves of police departments to embrace the concept. In the early 1990s, the town of about 80,000, located about 30 miles from Milwaukee, was considered the murder capital of Wisconsin. Now crime is at a 50-year low, and officials credit, in part, community policing. MICHAEL SMITH: Right now we're on 10th Street. The first community policing location for this neighborhood was over here on 10th and Davis. CORLEY: Sergeant Michael Smith, the supervisor of Racine's community policing division, is driving to each of the six houses where a community police officer works. The houses are in areas where drug dealing and gangs had been long-standing problems. Police Chief Art Howell, the first African-American to lead the department, says instead of flooding the hotspots with officers, the police department literally moved in. ART HOWELL: Monday through Friday you have the same officer working out of that house for a period of three years. So that officer gets to know who lives there, who should be there, who should not be there, what the concerns of the neighbors are. And so we became more or less embedded into the community. CORLEY: We're heading over to the Thelma Orr Community Policing House. Officer Robert Ortiz is waiting inside. This is your house. ROBERT ORTIZ: This is my house. (LAUGHTER) ORTIZ: I take ownership of this. CORLEY: Ortiz shows off the big kitchen, bedrooms turned into office spaces for probation and parole officers who meet their clients at the house. Ortiz doesn't sleep here, but he knows the area. He went to high school across the street, and he says the job allows him to make good connections with the neighbors. ORTIZ: I walk around. The kids know me. But at the same time, if you're out there and you're doing bad, you're going to know me, too. You're going to my name, and they do. CORLEY: It was the city's former police chief, Richard Polzin, who came up with the idea for community policing in the early 1990s. He says it was tough getting buy-in. RICHARD POLZIN: Because everybody felt being tough on crime was the way to go. And this new thing, community policing, would be a soft approach. And I said, no, it's not. It's about rebuilding neighborhoods. CORLEY: Police weren't welcome in the neighborhoods at first. The first house was firebombed. Officers were shot at. It's different now. Across the street from the Thelma Orr House, Shativia Cunningham (ph) is walking her dog with a friend. Cunningham used to attend after-school programs at one of the other cop houses when she was younger, and she says the neighborhood has seen the results of Racine's 20-year-plus reform. SHATIVIA CUNNINGHAM: It' very—it's peaceful now. It's pretty much peaceful. You see a bunch of kids running around playing for the most part. But as far as the fighting and the shooting and things like that that used to carry on, I don't see it no more from back in the day. I don't really see it like that. CORLEY: Racine officials say they still have much work to do, but the community policing reforms they enacted more than 20 years ago have made for better relationships between the police and the city's residents. Cheryl Corley, NPR News. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: We're down to the Final Four in the men's Division I college basketball tournament. Tomorrow, in Indianapolis, Duke plays Michigan State and Wisconsin plays overall number-one seed, Kentucky. The story of the tournament remains Kentucky's quest. If the Wildcats can win their last two games, they'll be the first top division men's team since 1976 to finish undefeated—the perfect season. NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman has been thinking about what it means to be perfect and filed this report. TOM GOLDMAN, BYLINE: We often turn to sports when real life fails us, when, for instance, the ideal of perfection comes up short—perfect relationship not so perfect, annoying boss ruining the perfect job. Behold the major league pitcher. (SOUNDBITE OF BASEBALL GAME) UNIDENTIFIED MAN #1: Throw to first. He did it. He did it. Dallas Braden just throwed a perfect game. GOLDMAN: Or the Olympic gymnast. (SOUNDBITE OF 1976 SUMMER OLYMPICS) UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN: Look at that—whoa to the handstand. Gorgeous routine—beautiful. And the crowd loves it. (APPLAUSE) UNIDENTIFIED MAN #2: And it is... UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN: A perfect 10. GOLDMAN: Nadia Comaneci's first-ever perfect score at the 1976 Summer Olympics became a touchstone. In the 39 years since, the celebration of any accomplishment in any walk of life often was accompanied by a perfect 10. Comaneci has had 39 years to think about what perfection means. NADIA COMANECI: It's like climbing a ladder and who gets there first the quickest is the one that achieves perfection. GOLDMAN: But the definition seems to rest more comfortably on numbers. A pitcher prevents 27 straight batters from getting to first base. The 1972 Miami Dolphins win 17 straight games—perfection based on numbers. Do we find true meaning of the word, then, in the world of mathematics? TIM CHARTIER: If there is a perfection point, it's more like the idea in calculus that it's a limit. And it may not be attainable, but theoretically you can reach it. GOLDMAN: Davidson College math professor Tim Chartier is an applied mathematician rather than theoretical. So he tends toward the perfection-is-elusive school of thought, even in his world of numbers. Interestingly, Chartier has made a unique connection to Davidson basketball. He and some of his students have helped the men's team with stats and analytics to the extent they're considered team members. The concept of perfection has worked its way into Davidson hoops as well. In every game, Chartier says, Head Coach Bob McKillop monitors 15 categories of team statistics. CHARTIER: If you were to meet those numeric thresholds on all of them then you would have a perfect game. GOLDMAN: Which is what happened a few years ago when, according to assistant coach Matt McKillop, the coach's son, Davidson had a perfect game. But—and here's where things start to unravel—Matt says while the team hit those statistical marks for perfection... BOB MCKILLOP: Many, many mistakes were made in that game. We could have done a little bit better. GOLDMAN: Sounds like Nadia Comaneci when asked about her perfect routine in Montreal. COMANECI: I thought I could've done better (laughter). GOLDMAN: And this from the man leading the current quest for perfection, although Kentucky Head Coach John Calipari won't call it that. JOHN CALIPARI: We know we're not perfect. We're undefeated, but we're not perfect. GOLDMAN: So is that the imperfect end to this story; that perfection isn't attainable, that it's really the striving toward the ideal that matters? Perhaps, but one thing is certain. Tomorrow, Wisconsin will do all it can to ensure nobody's perfect or undefeated. Tom Goldman, NPR News. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: Here's a pretty extraordinary find. This week, archaeologists announced that they've uncovered one of the largest medieval hospital cemeteries in Britain. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: The discovery was made a few years ago on the campus of Cambridge University. An archaeological team was digging underneath the Old Divinity School at St. John's College ahead of renovations when they started finding skeletons. CRAIG CESSFORD: When you find the first one or two, it's slightly a shock when you see the face and the skull of someone staring back up at you. CORNISH: That's Craig Cessford, the leader of the team. He says they kept digging and found the remains of about 1,300 people. CESSFORD: Some of them are complete, and you can see the body laid out. Other ones were just jumbles of bones. CORNISH: Cessford announced the discovery in The Archaeological Journal. The remains are from the 13th to 15th centuries, buried without coffins from the hospital of St. John the Evangelist. BLOCK: That's actually how St. John's College in Cambridge got its name. Now, before you start imagining 13th-century surgeries gone wrong, Cessford says it wasn't the kind of hospital we think of today. CESSFORD: It's sort of a combination of a nursing home, a hotel, a church and all those things wrapped into one really. CORNISH: Cessford says it's hard to tell from just the bones how the people in the hospital cemetery died. CESSFORD: It's quite possible that some of them died of bubonic plague. And, of course, a lot of relatively simple diseases that, today, you can get vaccinated against would potentially have been fatal at that time. CORNISH: Now, to Americans it might be surprising that a massive medieval cemetery went so long without being discovered. But Cessford says it's just another day when you're digging in a historic place like Cambridge. CESSFORD: Anywhere we dig, we find up to a thousand years of archaeology, lots of remains of the medieval colleges, Roman archaeology and prehistoric archaeology within the time. BLOCK: So watch your step, people of Cambridge. You never know what ancient stories may be beneath your feet. The vast majority of U.S. workers haven't seen any real wage gains since the recession. But that's starting to change, at least for low-income workers. This week, fast-food giant McDonald's announced it will pay workers $1 more than the local minimum wage. It joins some of the nation's other largest employers, including Wal-Mart, Target and TJX, the parent company of Marshalls and TJ Maxx. All say they will be boosting pay to at least $9 per hour this year, and some will go to $10 next year. For Wal-Mart alone, that's a pay raise for half a million Americans. Tom Perez, the U.S. secretary of labor, told NPR Friday that he considers all these moves "a step in the right direction." "I applaud what Wal-Mart has done, and TJ Maxx, and most recently McDonald's — who also added five days' paid sick leave for full-time people, and a pro rata share for part-time people," Perez said. Still, the McDonald's pay hike covers only the company-owned stores, not the franchises that make up 90 percent of the company's locations. Perez says there's something Congress could do to reach a lot more workers: raise the minimum wage. "Because there's still too many people working a full-time job and living in poverty, and that's just not who we are as a nation," he says. Even with the $1-an-hour pay raise announced by McDonald's, some workers are still less than enthusiastic. "For me, it really doesn't mean much. And it's not enough," says Jameer Calhoun, who works at a McDonald's in Los Angeles. As a shift manager, he already makes $9.35 an hour. Calhoun, married and with a young child, says he and his wife have to scrape money together any way they can. "That runs the gamut of family, friends, public assistance, temp jobs, helping people move, those types of things," he says. Of course, it's been hard to survive on fast-food wages for a long time, so why are these companies boosting pay right now? In the case of McDonald's, the fast-food industry has been under fire, with workers protesting for months. John Gordon, founder of Pacific Management Consulting Group, tracks chain restaurants. He says McDonald's is in part worried about its image. That's not just because of worker protests, he says. He also points to a scandal over the meat being used at restaurants across China and Japan. "The problems have been horrendous," he says. "A longtime McDonald's provider was using bad beef. Expired beef." But image problems aside, Gordon says the biggest factor in the wage increase is probably just basic economics. "They are doing it because the economy has picked up and the restaurants I cover — all of them, even the Cheesecake Factory — have noted increased labor costs," he says. "Because turnover has ratcheted up, and they are generally paying people more so they don't lose them." That sounds like a good thing: more job options and better pay for workers. But right now, when adjusting for inflation, the only workers seeing any real wage gains are at the very bottom and the very top of the pay scale. Larry Katz, a labor economist at Harvard, says he thinks eventually there will be pay gains for the middle class, too — "but it's going to be slow," he says. That's because there are still a lot of people looking for work in middle-income jobs, so there's not the same pressure on employers to raise wages as there is for low-wage jobs. Katz says new overtime rules could boost pay for some people more quickly. The current rules are outdated, he says. For example, if your company pays you just $25,000 a year but calls you a "manager," it's not required to pay you overtime. A new federal rule to fix that will be announced this spring. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: We're taking time throughout the program to understand more about the framework deal reached yesterday to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Now we'll hear how the deal is going over in Iran. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: In an address to his country today, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called the outline an important step towards engaging with the world. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) HASSAN ROUHANI: (Through interpreter) In today's world, development, progress and security in the region and in the world is not possible without cooperation and coronation. CORNISH: Thomas Erdbrink of The New York Times is in Tehran. Welcome to the program. THOMAS ERDBRINK: Thanks for having me, Audie. CORNISH: We just heard this positive spin from President Rouhani there, and we've seen photos of people cheering the return of the foreign minister to Tehran from Switzerland. But tell us, is the public reaction as optimistic as it appears? ERDBRINK: Yes and no. Of course people had been eagerly awaiting some sort of end of the beginning, if you will, to these sanctions. And when it came last night, a lot of people couldn't believe it. Suddenly they saw President Obama live on the Iranian state TV—the first time that an American president was live on television. Then some of them in this city of 12 million went out to cheer and to honk their cars, but of course not everybody. A lot of people were talking to each other inside their houses after having spent almost eight days following the news to try and figure out what does this all mean. CORNISH: One person who's been quiet is Iran Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. What does that tell you? ERDBRINK: To me, it says that he is currently trying to figure out exactly what the Iranian negotiating team has agreed upon. But I'm pretty sure that Iran's supreme leader will come out in continuing support of these nuclear negotiations. Now, he will go out in public and he will say look, these Americans have a different version of our agreement. They are not trustworthy, but at the same time, he will encourage the negotiating team and the government of President Rouhani to try and see if this deal in three months will still be possible. CORNISH: So what does that mean for those in opposition, the hardliners? ERDBRINK: Well, the interesting thing is that Iran's hardliners have been very quiet over the past weeks. And many people with inside information have been saying that the hardliners actually have been told to be quiet because the supreme leader, who has the final say over the nuclear case, wants them to be quiet. CORNISH: You actually attended some of the Friday prayers and you quote one cleric at Tehran University who said that Iran should make the effort to come to an agreement with the West. And he said we can even stop shouting death to America if it is needed. ERDBRINK: And of course, they did shout death to America 'cause they've been doing that for the past 35 years. But such remarks show the pragmatism currently within Iran's establishment. I don't think that Iran will throw its anti-American ideology overboard. There are many points of contention. Iran has a lot of regional enemies—Saudi Arabia that is, of course, an ally of the United States, not to mention Israel, ally of the United States. But at the same time there is a sense that in order for Iran to move forward it has to mend ties with the West. And this was also said by Iran's president today that there is a deep wish in his government to reestablish ties even with countries Iran has been at odds with over the past decades. CORNISH: Going forward, the parties here have until June to hammer out more details for a formal agreement. What are you going to be looking for and listening for? ERDBRINK: I will listen very closely, of course, to what the supreme leader has to say. And, at the same time, not only me, but a lot of people here in Iran, at least, will be looking at the United States, at America's hardliners, if you will. What will the Republicans say about this deal? Will there be a lot of opposition? It seems that the Iranians, for now, have their act together. They are united, but they will be looking at what will happen in America and also what will happen in Israel. CORNISH: That's New York Times correspondent Thomas Erdbrink. He spoke to us from Tehran. Thank you so much. ERDBRINK: Thanks for having me. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: We've been reporting on California's record drought and the impact it's having on the state's economy. The lack of water cost the state's agriculture industry more $2 billion last year. The latest estimates show it'll cost farmers another $1.5 billion in the year to come. And as NPR's Nathan Rott reports, recreation and towns that depend on water are also feeling the squeeze. NATHAN ROTT, BYLINE: The Kern River cuts through 165 miles of Southern California's prettiest scenery, over Alpine granite, through thick forests, past redwoods, carving rock and gorge before hitting the high desert near the town of Kernville, where folks who know the Kern well look at it and say... TOM MOORE: We call that a creek (laughter) yep. ROTT: Tom Moore is the owner of Sierra South, a white water rafting and outdoor supply company here in Kernville. We're standing downstream from a few rounded boulders on the river's banks—or what in a normal year would be the riverbed. MOORE: Yeah, we would be underwater. Those rocks would be underwater. ROTT: Usually the Kern River is roaring this time of year as the snow melts and rushes down. But with the Sierra Nevada snowpack at just 6 percent of normal, a record low, the river is doing more of a slow glide, which is bad news for white water rafting companies like Moore's. MOORE: We're snow farmers, you know? We're farming snow and we don't have a very good crop this year. ROTT: There is still some water and some rafting. Moore says he's lucky in that his company can still offer river tubing, kayaking; different activities for people who still want to enjoy the area. Other companies aren't that fortunate. (SOUNDBITE OF VOICEMAIL) UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN: Hello, and thank you for calling Kern River Outfitters. Due to the drought, we have decided to not operate for the 2015 season. JOHN DAVIS: As the river flows, so does our economy up here. ROTT: John Davis is the owner of the Riverview Lodge, a log cabin-like hotel overlooking the river in Kernville. DAVIS: In the last four years with the drought, my overall business, or revenue anyway, is down about 30 percent. ROTT: Hotels, restaurants, gas stations, everyone in this small mountain town is having to cut back and adapt, Davis says. And it's no different in other mountain towns across the state. Caroline Beteta is the president of Visit California, the state's main tourism organization. CAROLINE BETETA: Well, the vast majority of our tourism infrastructure has remained unaffected. The places that are affected are gravely affected, such as some of, you know, of course our ski resort communities this past winter. ROTT: Attendance on the state's ski slopes was down by about 30 percent on average. CHERYL BORTHICK: Order up. ROTT: Back in Kernville at Cheryl's cafe, Cheryl Borthick, the president of the town's chamber of commerce and owner of the cafe, says that the town of Kernville will survive. They'll reinvent and keep pushing to attract tourists. BORTHICK: The fishing is still good, even though there's less water. The scenery is beautiful. There's a museum. ROTT: But, she adds, a little more water sure wouldn't hurt. Nathan Rott, NPR News, Kernville, Calif. Brittany Bentz was 16 years old in 2012, living near Edwards Air Force Base in California. She went to the same martial arts studio as a family friend, who was 25 and in the Air Force. "He was like a brother so I felt comfortable talking with him, hanging out with him," Bentz says. It's NPR policy to name plaintiffs in sexual assault cases only if they want to tell their story — and Bentz does. According to her testimony at trial, Bentz says she needed a ride to martial arts class on March 7, 2012, so she called the airman. He came to the house and, Bentz claims, pinned her against the door in the laundry room and raped her. Rape in the U.S. military has been called an epidemic by commanders. The Pentagon has claimed progress in the fight against sexual assault. It points out that more victims are reporting such crimes, which could mean they trust the military justice system more than before. But that system doesn't just affect the lives of the troops. Every year, hundreds of civilians claim they are sexually assaulted by troops. They can find themselves involved in a court martial proceeding where civilian accusers aren't treated the same as those in uniform. It took Bentz a long time to decide to press the case. When she did, even the Air Force prosecutors warned her it would be tough. "Are you sure you want to go through with this?" Bentz recalls them asking her. "Yes, I want to go through with this. 'OK then, we're going in whole heartedly.'" A Different Set Of Rules But Bentz had no idea what she would face as the only one not in uniform at military court. When civilians and military members are involved in a case, it may be handled by either civilian or military courts and it can often be determined jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction and case-by-case. The military justice system also has different rules, and Bentz's case highlighted those differences. First, the Air Force investigators asked Bentz to call the airman on the phone so they could listen in. On that call, Bentz asks the airman if he is sorry for what happened. NPR obtained an official transcript of the call. Airman: "That's why I feel so bad about it." Ms. Bentz: "So you feel bad ..." Airman: "... among other things." Ms. Bentz: "... that you forced me to have sex and almost completely ruined my relationship with my boyfriend, because me and him almost broke up after that." Airman: "Yeah, I remember you telling me that. And I more than feel bad about it, because I think about it all the time, you know, how much I screwed things up." The call is almost 15 minutes long. It's ambiguous — the airman does not admit raping Bentz. But the Air Force investigators decided to call the airman in to question him. This is exactly how a civilian detective would have investigated this case. But after that — the two systems of justice diverge. For example, under California law, a 25-year-old having sex with a 16-year-old would be statutory rape. But under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the age of consent is 16. A Confusing Process There are plenty of other differences, and they're enough to make a civilian, even a civilian lawyer, confused, says Don Christensen, formerly the chief prosecutor for the Air Force. "The court martial process is unlike any other criminal process in this country," he says. "It's confusing enough for military members who go through the process. But for a civilian who has no ties to the military, it is like entering another world." Christensen now leads a group called Protect Our Defenders and is a leading critic of the military's treatment of rape cases. There is one reform he applauds though. It's called the Special Victims Counsel. Under pressure from Congress, the Pentagon created it to help support rape victims and protect their legal rights. Dr. Nate Galbreath, with the Pentagon's Sexual Assault Prevention, says the Special Victims Counsel actually puts the military system out ahead of civilian courts. "The Special Victims Council program is something that we just don't see in the civilian system," he says. "You do have sexual assault response teams in selected jurisdictions, but the military, we're the only ones that I know of to do this regularly, uniformly, and with as many resources for victims." The problem for Bentz and other civilians is they are not entitled to a Special Victims Counsel. Three Rounds Of Questioning Throughout this process, Brittany's mom, Melinda Bentz, looked to the Air Force prosecutors for help. But, as in a civilian court, prosecutors can't give legal advice to a victim. "Our heads were spinning. All this legal jargon and this military jargon," she recalls. "Any time I would ask a question they did what they had to do, which was say, 'I can't advise you, I can't advise you, I can't advise you.'" Without a military person to advise her, Brittany Bentz was essentially cross-examined three times. First, when the defense asked to question her. She didn't know she could have refused. She says that turned into a three-hour session. The second round of questioning came at the pretrial hearing, which the military calls Article 32. Again, Bentz didn't understand the rules. Bentz was very close to handing over her Facebook account, and her phone and text records to the opposing counsel when her mom figured out she didn't have to. Finally, there was the deposition. In California civilian courts, a judge can't force a person who says she was raped to be deposed. A deposition can be like being on trial and it can intimidate victims enough to drop the case or never report it in the first place. That's according to Brian Condon, a civilian lawyer who started advising Brittany Bentz, pro bono. "There's anecdotes from other cases where proceedings have gone on for hours and hours and days, and victims exposed to extensive questioning. Certainly you could see from the outside that may be trying to harass the victim or dissuade her from moving forward," says Condon. A Therapist Explains Her Notes Equally intimidating for Bentz: Defense lawyers demanded her therapist's records. Condon says under California law that would have been nearly impossible. The military judge ordered Bentz's therapist to explain her confidential notes — in front of the accused and his lawyers. "It was traumatic. You say things ... to your therapist, there's some stuff in there that I might not have told my mom right away," says Bentz. Beyond exposing her private thoughts, reading out Bentz's records gave the accused's legal counsel a look inside her head, says her mother. "So basically, the defense had someone listening to her therapy records helping them form how to manipulate her on the stand," says Melinda Bentz. "She didn't even want to go to therapy anymore." After 2 1/2 years, the case concluded with a verdict last October: not guilty. NPR reached the airman by phone. He said he did not rape Brittany Bentz. He declined to answer whether they had sex, and he declined to be interviewed further. NPR is not publishing his name because of the verdict. Brittany Bentz is now 19 and in college. There was a time when it didn't look like she would make it to college. The court martial consumed her senior year in high school, her grades suffered, and so did her social life. "I did really bad with making friends. I just didn't trust anybody," says Bentz. Her mother says Brittany has regained some of that trust in people. "My happiest day was I called her up and she says, 'Mom, I can't talk. We're having pizza and doing nails.' It was the first time that she had friends," her mother says. Brittany Bentz says she's glad that her case was among several that inspired changes to the way the military handles rape. It's now harder for a military court to order depositions or demand mental health records. But civilians who find themselves in a military court still aren't assigned a Special Victims Counsel. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: The day after Iran, the U.S. and other world powers reached an agreement on the outlines of a nuclear deal, the sales pitches have begun. Iran's president, Hassan Rouhani, has been promising to bring his country out of isolation, and says this is a first step to better ties with the world. Here in Washington, exhausted negotiators have returned from Switzerland and are now reaching out to skeptics in Congress, in Israel and in the Arab world. NPR's Michele Kelemen reports that won't be an easy task. MICHELE KELEMEN, BYLINE: While both sides face critics at home, the Iranian negotiators need mainly the blessing of the supreme leader, which would likely quiet the hardliners. And Iran-watcher, Ariane Tabatabai, says that makes it easier for them to sell this deal domestically. ARIANE TABATABAI: You can't say the same thing for Congress here. You can't say the same thing for the White House. The White House doesn't have that power over its critics. KELEMEN: And Tabatabai, who teaches at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service, says the Obama administration needs to step up its game. TABATABAI: The White House hasn't been doing a good enough job selling the deal. At the same time, there are people who just don't want the deal to happen regardless. KELEMEN: The administration says it's in frequent contact with Congress. The president has also reached out to some of the toughest critics abroad, including Saudi King Salman and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who sees this deal as a threat to his country. Those conversations could not have been easy, says one critic of the Iran deal, Danielle Pletka, of the American Enterprise Institute. DANIELLE PLETKA: I think the problem for the president is that they already mistrust him. He has really achieved one remarkable feat, and that is the he has put the Gulf Arabs and Israel in exactly the same camp. KELEMEN: President Obama is inviting Gulf Arab allies to Camp David this spring and trying to remind them that a nuclear deal would not erase other U.S. concerns about Iranian behavior in the region. Secretary of State John Kerry, whose plane returned from the talks at 6 A.M. this morning, was on the phone with his Gulf counterparts making that case too. But, Pletka says, the Saudis and others already think the U.S. is siding with Iran in a grand struggle in the Middle East. PLETKA: You know, they may not be the nicest guys in the world. In fact, you know, the Gulf Arabs have a lot of serious problems, but they're not stupid. And the notion that they should somehow separate these, quote, unquote, "files" is laughable. They live next door to the Iranians. They are victims of Iranian predation. KELEMEN: Pletka worries that the deal will leave Iran with too much nuclear infrastructure, and that could spark an arms race in the region. But Kelsey Davenport, a nonproliferation expert with the Arms Control Association, says if a final deal is reached, international inspectors will have unprecedented access to Iran's nuclear program. KELSEY DAVENPORT: So I think that sends a clear message to countries in the region that this deal will really block the covert pathway to nuclear weapons. KELEMEN: Speaking at the Atlantic Council, Davenport says she sees the upcoming Camp David summit as key to reassuring Gulf allies. She also sees the limits to Iran's nuclear program as a good selling point for the White House and Congress. There are still many who say Iran can't be trusted at all. For them, Columbia University scholar, Gary Sick, has this story. He was on President Carter's national security staff and negotiated the agreement that ended the hostage crisis. Shortly after, a skeptical President Reagan came to office. GARY SICK: He quietly observed the agreement. And it has been agreed to and observed by five successive presidents. And it has been meticulously observed by Iran. And, by the way, just for the record, this was never submitted to Congress. KELEMEN: Congress is insisting on weighing in this time around, and the White House will need lawmakers eventually to lift sanctions if Iran agrees to a final deal and keeps its commitments. Michele Kelemen, NPR News, Washington. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: Count nuclear weapons expert Gary Samore as among the skeptics who doubted that Iran would agree to a nuclear deal. GARY SAMORE: It looked to me like they were not going to be able to reach agreement on anything beyond a rather anodyne statement. BLOCK: So he was surprised by how many details were laid out in yesterday's framework. Samore was President Obama's top adviser on nuclear issues during his first term, at a time when Iran refused to engage directly with the U.S. I asked him how confident he is in the inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. Samore says what's in the framework looks pretty good. SAMORE: The inspections that are included in the agreement, including a channel for monitoring Iran's procurement of equipment and materials from overseas and some kind of mechanism to be determined for challenge inspections, all of those mechanisms, I think, will strengthen our intelligence capabilities. But we should just keep in mind that you can't depend on inspections and monitoring alone. At the end of the day, U.S. and allied intelligence is going to be critical for verifying this agreement. We've done a very good job up to now, but you can never be certain that there won't be a lapse in the future. And we certainly know that there have been a number of times when U.S. intelligence has not detected foreign nuclear weapons program. BLOCK: Is there any new technology now or on the horizon that would be helpful in detecting cheating, secret sites, anything like that? SAMORE: I frankly think that the best way to detect cheating is through old-fashioned espionage. Yes, there are some technical measures, but there's no magic bullet, especially because centrifuge technology is fairly difficult to detect through technical means. So it's really going to depend much more on old-fashioned spying than technical fixes. BLOCK: A question about Iran's uranium enrichment—according to the framework, Iran will have 5,000 centrifuges enriching uranium for 10 years, down from 19,000. Five-thousand still sounds like an awful lot. Why that number? Is that significant? SAMORE: Well, it's certainly more than we started. Our original proposal was that they have just a few hundred centrifuges. And, of course, Iran's original position was that they wouldn't give up a single one of their 19,000. So the 5,000 enriching, 6,000 installed—that represents a compromise. And I think from Iran's standpoint, they want to preserve the ability in the future should they decide to pursue a much more expanded enrichment program, including a nuclear weapons option. BLOCK: And in the meantime, what do—what does 5,000-some odd centrifuges allow Iran to do? SAMORE: Well, I don't think it really poses a very serious nuclear proliferation threat because with those 5,000 centrifuges and a very small pile of low-enriched uranium, it would take them about a year to produce enough weapons-grade uranium from a single device. And this is at a facility which is very heavily monitored. So I think it's extremely unlikely that they would try to break out at the declared facility. So I think what we're buying in this agreement is basically a delay in management of Iran's nuclear threat for 10 to 15 years. And, of course, at that point, nobody can anticipate what the situation would be, who will be in power in Iran, what U.S.-Iranian relations are like. Nobody can know that. So this agreement is basically a way to delay and manage the threat. BLOCK: Gary Samore, thanks so much for talking with us. SAMORE: Thanks, Melissa. It's good to talk to you. BLOCK: Gary Samore is President Obama's former top adviser on nuclear issues. He's now executive director for research at Harvard's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: Right-To-Die legislation is under consideration in nearly 20 states and the District of Columbia this year. The measures would legalize prescriptions to speed dying for terminally ill patients. California is among the states taking up the issue. Pauline Bartolone of Capital Public Radio reports from Sacramento that some people of faith are coming out in support of the cause. PAULINE BARTOLONE: Clergy, more than a lot of people, come face-to-face with death regularly. VERNON HOLMES: Donna, how are you feeling? DONNA: Good. BARTOLONE: Pastor Vernon Holmes leads a small Lutheran congregation near Sacramento. Its average age is 79. This Sunday after worship, Holmes is teaching a class about the last days of Jesus. HOLMES: Do we really believe in the power of God to transform this world? Do we really believe in the resurrection? BARTOLONE: Holmes describes his faith as promoting quality of life. That same faith also leads him to challenge the status quo and injustice. His congregation is part of a state organization called California Church Impact, which supports California's physician-assisted suicide bill. HOLMES: There are things in life that are worse than death. BARTOLONE: Holmes' experience as a founding member of a regional hospice program for the terminally ill helped him come to that conclusion. He says that people he dealt with didn't fear dying as much as losing independence, being a burden or living in constant pain. His faith is about supporting people to live free and productive lives. HOLMES: And when that's no longer possible, and they feel that their life has come to a point of closure, and they are in the process of dying, to have some say in that process seems to be the more just approach. BARTOLONE: Just before Holmes' class, 76-year-old Peggy Rheault says she's come to a similar conclusion as her pastor. PEGGY RHEAULT: I don't think Jesus would want us to suffer. I think he would agree with us. It's not—to me it's not suicide. It's help. NED DOLEJSI: We are not autonomous. BARTOLONE: Ned Dolejsi is from the California Catholic Conference, a legislative advocacy group that represents the state's Catholic bishops. The group is against what it calls physician-assisted suicide. It fears such legislation doesn't protect or respect the most vulnerable. DOLEJSI: We're a social being. We're in a network of relationships and communities, so we're always concerned about the common good and how the whole society surrounding that individual is flourishing and helping that individual flourish. BARTOLONE: Dolejsi says Catholics believe suffering is part of life and the challenge is to transform that suffering. He says if people are in pain when they're dying, they're probably getting bad medical care. DOLEJSI: That's a challenge we should all be addressing as a society, not saying, oh, because there is this pain that then we have to allow someone to separate themselves from the rest of us and to take their own life. We should be focused on, how do we make sure no one dies in pain and no one dies alone? BARTOLONE: Many Christian denominations officially oppose physician-aided dying. But Peg Sandeen of the Death with Dignity National Center says, on an individual level, people of faith have long supported the cause. PEG SANDEEN: Death with Dignity is absolutely compatible with Christian views. It's about compassion. It's about love. It's about family. And those seem to be deeply held Christian values. BARTOLONE: Faith is only one cause for debate around California's End of Life Option Act. A long list of groups on both sides are weighing in as the bill travels through the legislature. For NPR News, I'm Pauline Bartolone in Sacramento. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: For people throughout the Midwest, spring means the start of tornado season. When natural disasters strike, like tornadoes or hurricanes, hospitals have to be able to survive. From member station KCUR in Kansas City, Alex Smith reports on how hospitals are trying to strengthen their defenses against disaster. ALEX SMITH: Shortly after one of the worst of tornadoes in U.S. history, Joplin, Mo., resident Brandon McCoy described what he saw during the storm. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) BRANDON COY: Standing on the sixth floor, I was trying to help a lady out of some debris. And you look outside and just—everything's gone—everything. And, you know, nobody knew what happened. SMITH: One-hundred-fifty-eight people died as a result of the massive tornado in May 2011, and the property damage was catastrophic, particularly for St. John's Medical Center. NORMAN MORGAN: What you're looking at is basically a brick building that's halfway out of the grade right now. SMITH: Nearly four years later, Norman Morgan of the Dallas-based HKS architecture firm shows off the distinct features of Joplin's new hospital. It's covered in concrete and brick paneling, and many of the windows are built to hold up in 250-mile-per-hour winds. Outside you can see the roof of an underground bunker where the generators and boilers are housed out of the reach of danger. ROBIN GUENTHER: To also provide essential community services as the most resistant or significant buildings in communities. SMITH: Robin Guenther is a principal with Perkins and Will architecture firm. She co-authored a recent report for the Department of Health and Human Services describing how hospitals can better withstand natural disasters. She says that in many cases hospitals may need to be rebuilt from scratch, particularly on the coasts where flooding is a risk. GUENTHER: Those hospitals actually need to be built upside down, meaning all of their key equipment should not be in the basements or undergrounds. It needs to actually be on the roof. SMITH: The full-on storm hardening done at Joplin added up to about two-and-a-half percent of the total construction cost, or about $12 million. But Guenther says in less storm-prone areas, the job can be done for 1 percent or less. Despite that relatively low cost, prevention is a tough sell. GUENTHER: We increase the level of strength of a building, wall or roof based on a disaster that causes damage, not before it happens. RON MARSHALL: Having grown up in Kansas and being a native of Kansas, I think we've all learned to respect the power of tornadoes. And I don't think there's any skepticism that it couldn't happen to any of us. SMITH: Ron Marshall coordinates hospital preparedness for the Kansas Hospital Association. Here at St. Francis Hospital in Topeka, he says they're focused on improving preparation strategies. MARSHALL: We'd all love to go out and build a new tornado-safe hospital, but in today's reality of economics and health care, that's unfortunately not easily an option. SMITH: More pressure for storm-proofing could be coming. Hurricanes Katrina, Sandy and Ike lead to some of the biggest insurance payouts in U.S. history. And worries about future losses may lead insurers to insist on new building requirements. For NPR News, I'm Alex Smith in Kansas City. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: Think back to when you were nine years old. What did you want to be when you grew up? For Simbi Ajikawo, it was clear—rapper. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "NO INTRODUCTION") SIMBIATO AJIKAWO: (Rapping) If I could just have a few moments of your time, that would be much appreciated. Thank you. CORNISH: Today, she goes by Little Simz. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "NO INTRODUCTION") AJIKAWO: (Rapping) Oh, been away for a minute. And while I was gone they came with the gimmicks. Packed my bags. Where in the world should I visit? CORNISH: Little Simz is from North London. This song is called "No Introduction." It's one of many she's released on her own. Her mix tapes have drawn the attention of American rap superstars like Jay Z and Kendrick Lamar. We caught up with her in Austin at the recent South by Southwest festival. And Little Simz has actually been rapping since she was nine. She's 21 now. She dabbled in other things. She was a child actor, did some musical theater. But rapping stuck. Little Simz says being a good rapper means being honest. AJIKAWO: Music's like therapy, you know? It's my escape. It's a way for me to express my feelings and my thoughts. And just when I was in that space and writing that song, I just touched home a lot. I touched up subjects that I'd never open up to someone in person. CORNISH: For instance, her family. She's Nigerian and her mom is a foster parent. Little Simz has lived with kids from all over the world. Her dad, on the other hand, wasn't around much, and she doesn't consider him much of a parent that all. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "NO INTRODUCTION") AJIKAWO: (Rapping) My daddy weren't around. What a wicked man. You can call me disrespectful. I don't give a damn. Oh, lord, how can you be so sure that you're going to make it? And so in that song, I remember as I was writing it—just, like, give them everything and just say how you feel. I talk about my dad. I talk about how I feel like the industry treats me, how the industry may have changed me or molded me. I just touch upon loads of different subjects. So that's probably one of my favorite songs to date. CORNISH: The role of the recording industry also plays a big role in Little Simz music. Despite the attention she's been getting, Little Simz hasn't signed to a major label. Her lyrics often refer to her constant effort to break away from the preconceived image of what it means to be a young female artist performing in this genre. That comes through clearly in a song like "Devour." (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "DEVOUR") AJIKAWO: (Rapping) Please don't pay them no mind. You little puppies do not bite. I'll be sitting on some goldmines. I couldn't get it for a low price. Now I'm looking for the gold ride. Tell the king I'm waiting for my slice of some of the cake or the pie. It's hard because you're only good for a girl. You're not being taken serious. You'll never be in the same category or match up to what the guys are doing. This is a male-dominated industry. But you want to rap? I don't think so. And even if you did, they'll put you straight in a box. This is as far as you're going to go. You want to crack America? I don't think so. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "DEVOUR") AJIKAWO: (Rapping) Many, many men will attempt to devour my throne. I empower my own. I'm just trying to be the best me, but in gold they will shower my clone. Many, many men will attempt to devour my throne. I empower my own. I'm just trying to be the best me, but in gold they will shower my clone. What the (expletive) going on? Basically I'm just trying to be the best version of myself. But that's not good enough because someone else will come up, do exactly what I'm doing and they will get praise. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "DEVOUR") AJIKAWO: (Rapping) Oh, put you in the jungle with the lions, tigers and the bears. Can you handle it? What do you fear? Can you manage living in despair? Snakes are about. You've got to be weary. Be aware. Can you feel the energy in the air? Many will listen but do not hear. CORNISH: So she started her own label. It's called Age 101. This song, "Devour," has more than a million plays on SoundCloud. Little Simz is doing some producing for herself and other artists. She's hungry, as rappers like to say. She's competitive and she's paving her own way. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "MANDARIN ORANGES PART 2") AJIKAWO: (Rapping) What you know about trying to follow a dream at nine? Little kiddy with ambition. Now I'm grown and clever enough to read the signs. But I was young and on a mission. Now I'm 20 and I can't believe the time. Where did it go to? What did I grow to? When other rappers needed height, I always had a buzz... CORNISH: Simbi Ajikawo. She goes by Little Simz. Her latest EP is called "Age 101: Drop 3000." AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: Ahead, we'll be taking a closer look at the framework agreement reached today to limit Iran's nuclear program. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: But first, to one of the other top stories we're following today, an attack on a university campus in Kenya. A government minister says Islamist al-Shabab militants killed 147 people and injured nearly 80 others. CORNISH: Kenyan security officers exchanged gunfire with the militants throughout the day. The gunmen claimed to have let Muslims go but killed Christians. NPR's Gregory Warner has more. GREGORY WARNER, BYLINE: Nelly Makhoka was woken this morning by gunfire and explosions. Gunmen had forced their way before dawn into her university campus in Garissa, Kenya, about a hundred miles from the Somali border. And when the 20-year-old education major talked to me from an army safe house on a patchy cell phone too poor for broadcast, she told me that scores of her classmates were still trapped inside. Some were hiding in closets. Some were under their beds. Throughout the day and into the evening, the gunmen and the trapped students were holed up in one particular block of dormitories, seemingly scouted out by the gunmen in advance. It's a block with clear views of inside and outside and ample protection for gunmen on the roof. All day, Kenyan security forces were unable to gain access. A few hours before the battle's conclusion, I spoke with Arnolda Shiundu at the Kenyan Red Cross. She said dozens had been airlifted and treated for gunshot wounds, but doctors were still preparing to receive those inside with injuries likely compounded by time. ARNOLDA SHIUNDU: The students have gone through a whole day without food, without water, and of course you can imagine the adrenaline that has been pumping through them. So that will be the worry. WARNER: The greater worry that Shiundu wouldn't speculate on is the one that came to be. Soon after nightfall, witnesses heard a massive series of explosions. Speaking to reporters on the scene, the minister of interior, Joseph Nkaissery, said the gunmen were strapped with suicide vests. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) JOSEPH NKAISSERY: The officers who were—got injured, they shoot these terrorists. Terrorists just blow because they are like bombs. So some of the shrapnel which was strapped on the bodies of the terrorists is the one which injured the officers. WARNER: After this dramatic encounter, there was no more talk from authorities about rescuing hostages—only about sweeping the area and counting the dead. For many Kenyans, the ominous language recalled the final hours of another attack in Nairobi in 2013 on Westgate Shopping Mall. That attack killed 67 people and was claimed by the same Islamist group, al-Shabab, based over the border in Somalia which has stepped up terrorism along this border region. Stig Hansen, author of the book "Al-Shabaab In Somalia," says both attacks have the group's signature. STIG HANSEN: Their main signature here is you have a small team going in. It's trying to hold a compound over time. To maximize media attention, they want to hold it. Unfortunately, in this situation, very often the hostages are killed—at least the non-Muslim hostages are killed. WARNER: But Hansen says one aspect of this attack did surprise him, the choice of target. Al-Shabab is not known for targeting university students, as is, say, the Islamist group in Nigeria, Boko Haram. But in the race to attract foreign recruits, al-Shabab has been losing ground to the more showy and brutal Boko Haram and Islamic State, even among their fellow ethnic Somalis. HANSEN: If you are an extremist second-generation Somali these days, you will go to Syria and Iraq. WARNER: The message, he says, of this deadly attack was aimed not just at Kenya but at potential jihadist groups as far away as Europe and the United States. Gregory Warner, NPR News, Nairobi. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: The new president of Nigeria is a former dictator who imprisoned journalists and dissidents without trial and ordered soldiers to whip people who didn't form neat lines at bus stops and banks. Back in the 1980s, Muhammadu Buhari took power in a military coup, and he ruled a harsh law-and-order regime in Nigeria for 20 months. Now he calls himself a converted democrat ready to operate under democratic norms. But is that possible? Nigerian historian and writer Max Siollun joins me now to talk about Buhari's record. Welcome to the program. MAX SIOLLUN: Thank you very much for having me on. CORNISH: And I have seen Buhari's previous role 30 years ago described as a draconian military regime. Talk a bit about his human rights record back then in the 1980s. What did he do? SIOLLUN: Buhari first came to power on the last day of 1983 in an atmosphere of euphoric jubilation because he displaced a very unpopular civilian government that was regarded as corrupt and indisciplined. But that popularity and euphoria very quickly dissipated when opposition against the regime started. He jailed many of the politicians of the former regime for very, very long prison terms, sometimes exceeding 50 years. And given that some of these guys were already in their 50s and 60s, it was, quite frankly, as good as a death sentence. When some trade unions protested against his regime and went on strike, he arrested the leaders of the unions and put them in prison—arrested some journalists as well under—for violating a decree passed by his regime which made it a criminal offense to publish material that was embarrassing to the incumbent government. CORNISH: I've also seen mention of a campaign that Buhari led back in the '80s called a war against indiscipline which involved public humiliation—things like that. SIOLLUN: The war against indiscipline, or WAI, as it was called then, was an attempt by Buhari to introduce civic virtues into Nigerian society and public life. He introduced things like compulsory making people sing the national anthem, promoting queueing at bus stops and in public buildings—all ostensibly noble aims, however, violators were often forced to complete frog jumps. CORNISH: What are frog jumps? SIOLLUN: It's basically crouching down with your hands behind your head, then leaping up in the air, going down to a crouch and then leaping up again. At the time there were WAI brigade enforcers who had the discretion to implement whatever punishment they saw fit. And those guys, being soldiers, of course used punishments that they use on military cadets and on—that they use on errant soldiers in the barracks. CORNISH: Do you think that human rights concerns in Nigeria might be trumped right now by people's desire to see a strong government that will smash the Islamist insurgents Boko Haram? SIOLLUN: What I'll say is that the human rights concerns are less of an issue with a democratically-elected civilian government than with a military dictatorship as Nigeria had 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, Buhari got away with some of the things he did, and the military got away with it because they suspended on coming to power several parts of the Nigerian Constitution, mainly those parts that dealt with human rights and the people's freedom of assembly. That situation does not exist today. A government in Nigeria today has to behave in a far more benevolent manner. There are far more civic institutions at play. The citizenry has evolved as well and are a lot more sophisticated, a lot more cognizant and aware of their rights and would not tolerate some of the excesses that the military got away with during the decades of military rule. CORNISH: I've been talking with Max Siollun. He's author of the book, "Soldiers Of Fortune: Nigerian Politics From Buhari To Babangida." Thanks so much for talking with us. SIOLLUN: Thank you very much for having me on. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: To survive, we need to be able to do a handful of things—breathe, drink, eat. We're going to focus now on a less obvious but no less vital human function, learning. New research out today in the journal Science sheds light on the very building blocks of learning in babies. From the NPR Ed team, Cory Turner has our report. CORY TURNER, BYLINE: The 11-month-old in this video is sitting in a high chair in front of a small stage where you might expect a puppet show. Except this is a lab at Johns Hopkins University. Instead of a puppeteer, a researcher is rolling a red and blue striped ball down a ramp toward a little ball at the bottom. Even babies seem to know the ball can't go through that wall, but not necessarily because they learned it. It's what some scientists call core knowledge—something they say we're born with. Lisa Feigenson is a professor of psychological and brain sciences at Hopkins and one of the researchers behind this study. LISA FEIGENSON: Some pieces of knowledge are so fundamental in guiding regular, everyday interactions with the environment, navigating through space, reaching out and picking up an object, avoiding an oncoming object. Those things are so fundamental to survival that they're really selected for by evolution. TURNER: So when the ball rolls down the ramp and does go through the wall thanks to some sleight-of-hand by the researchers, that cute baby—she's surprised. And this is where the learning part of our story kicks in. Not only did the babies in the study react when the ball appeared to go through the wall or, say, a toy car floated across the stage, their surprise appeared to make them better learners. What does this mean? Well, when the babies were given new information about these seemingly magical objects, like the ball also squeaks, the infants were more likely to retain it. But if the ball stopped at the wall as it did for some babies, they paid less attention to it and were less likely to remember if it also squeaked, as if to say, it's just a ball. I get it. Who cares? In another experiment, the babies were given a chance to play with the items that had surprised them, and not only did they prefer those to other toys, they played with them in a way that suggested they were trying to learn. AIMEE STAHL: Consider seeing a ball pass through a wall right in front of your eyes. TURNER: Aimee Stahl is lead author of the paper and a doctoral candidate at Johns Hopkins. STAHL: If you were given that ball to explore, you might want to test its solidity by banging it on a solid surface. TURNER: Stahl says that's exactly what the babies did. They pounded it on the tray of their highchair. UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN: Boom, boom, boom. TURNER: And the babies who saw that car float across the stage—they just wanted to drop it to see if it would float again. In short, says Stahl... STAHL: ...They take surprising events as special opportunities to learn. TURNER: This theory that we're born knowing certain rules of the world isn't new. Not only do we see evidence of it in humans, but in lots of other species, too. What's new is this idea—that core knowledge motivates babies to explore things that break those rules and ultimately to learn new things. In short, it's not always nature versus nurture. Sometimes it's nature doing the nurturing. Cory Turner, NPR News, Washington. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: Negotiators from the United States, Iran and five other countries say they've reached the outlines of a nuclear deal. The announcement came today after a round-the-clock bargaining session in Switzerland that stretched into overtime. The deal sets strict new limits on Iran's nuclear program for a decade or more in exchange for a gradual lifting of economic sanctions. President Obama cautions that there are still many details to work out over the next three months, but he told reporters in the White House Rose Garden this is the beginning of a historic understanding. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: I'm convinced that if this framework leads to a final comprehensive deal, it will make our country, our allies and our world safer. CORNISH: The president still has to sell the agreement to skeptics both at home and abroad. NPR's Scott Horsley joins us now. Welcome, Scott. SCOTT HORSLEY, BYLINE: Good to be with you, Audie. CORNISH: So this is a moment that this administration and really this president has waited a long time for. HORSLEY: Absolutely. Outreach to Iran has been a cornerstone of Barack Obama's foreign-policy philosophy even before he became president. It's something he talked about in his Nobel Peace Prize speech in '09, and even back in the campaign of '07 and '08 he was talking about reaching out to the Iranian regime. At the time, he was called naive, and even now there are those who think he has been snookered by a regime which has, after all, a history of secret nuclear development. But the president insists this framework deal calls for very intensive inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities and its entire nuclear supply chain. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) OBAMA: This deal is not based on trust. It's based on unprecedented verification. HORSLEY: And the president suggests some of the critics are just not paying attention. He'll say that some of the warnings about backsliding by Iran were raised a year ago when negotiations began, and that since that time Iran has lived up to its obligations. CORNISH: And the president planned to speak with one of the chief skeptics this afternoon, right, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu. HORSLEY: That's right. The president had some celebratory calls to make today to some of the countries that were part of the negotiations, but he also had some much more difficult calls, including to Netanyahu, the King of Saudi Arabia, Iran's regional rival, and he planned to call congressional leaders who were also worried about any let up in sanctions. But the president notes public opinion is on his side in this case. A majority of Americans support a negotiated settlement with Iran, and the president suggests any alternative would be worse. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) OBAMA: When you hear the inevitable critics of the deal sound off, ask them a simple question—do you really think that this verifiable deal, if fully implemented, backed by the world's major powers, is a worse option than the risk of another war in the Middle East? HORSLEY: And the president warns if Congress is seen to walk away from this deal then the United States will get the blame for the diplomatic collapse, and the united front that's really been assembled against Iran will crumble. CORNISH: And, of course, Congress does still want a say in this process, but are they likely to get one? HORSLEY: Some lawmakers are pressing for authority to vote up or down on any agreement that is eventually finalized with Iran in any relaxation in U.S. sanctions. The White House has pushed back against that. But today the president said his negotiators will be briefing lawmakers on the outlines of the deal, and Obama says he welcomes a robust debate. He says he's confident he can persuade the American people of what he already believes—that this is a good deal. CORNISH: That's NPR's Scott Horsley on the framework agreed to today in Switzerland for a deal to limit Iran's nuclear program. We'll have more on this elsewhere in the show. Scott, thanks so much. HORSLEY: You're welcome. MELISSA BLOCK, HOST: Just across the Rio Grande from Brownsville, Texas, violence is flaring along the northeastern border of Mexico. Rival factions of the Gulf Cartel are battling for control of a valuable smuggling corridor. The local population is caught in the crossfire and has increasingly become a target. NPR's John Burnett reports now on one man's harrowing experience. JOHN BURNETT, BYLINE: The portly 29-year-old Mexican-American used to buy and sell gold. He owned a jewelry store in Matamoros, not far from a friend's curio shop where he now sits. His name is Juan. He asked that we not use his last name, out of security concerns for himself and his family. He wears a thick gold chain and trendy red sneakers. The men who kidnapped him two years ago apparently knew his family was well off. JUAN: One day I was just closing my store and three guys show up. They told me, get in the van. I was afraid of my life because I saw guns. BURNETT: They put a sack over his head, drove for half an hour, stopped the van and ordered him out. He says he was led into a filthy, evil-smelling room with bloodstained walls and no toilet. Juan would spend the next seven days there. They fed him spoiled food and brutalized him daily. JUAN: They started hitting me really bad on my body, my face, my head. Each of them got sticks, like a baseball stick. I actually start thinking that they feel pleasure when they hit me. They told me like, we know you guys got more money, your family's saying that they don't have enough money to pay for you, they don't care about you—they're going to let you die. BURNETT: They did not let him die. His parents paid the kidnappers a half-million pesos—nearly $42,000—for their son's life. On the eighth day, the men pulled the sack over his head and put him back in the van. They drove for about two hours. Juan lay on the van floor thinking he was about to be executed, while his captors laughed in the front seat and sang along to narcocorridos. JUAN: Then one of them just told me, OK, [expletive], you're done. They took me out of the van. I can see nothing. They hit me really, really bad. I pass out. BURNETT: When Juan regained consciousness, he realized he was alive and his hands were untied. He'd been left in remote scrubland on the outskirts of Matamoros. He says he was in terrible shape. His nose was broken, his eyes were nearly swollen shut and his head was covered with contusions. He walked for hours until he finally heard highway traffic and spotted a farmhouse. The campesino saw him and called an ambulance. JUAN: I woke up in a hospital. The first person that I saw was my mom and my dad. I just start crying. BURNETT: It took Juan months to recover from his physical wounds. Today he still sees a therapist for mental anguish, more than two years later. Like many other Matamoros families that can afford to, his parents fled his hometown and moved across the river to Brownsville, Texas, where Juan has opened a new business that he prefers not to name. They knew the city had changed. Matamoros has been controlled by organized crime for decades, but the new narco bosses were different. JUAN: In past years, you'd just see guys in white trucks—oh, that's the members of a cartel, but they don't mess with the people. What I see right now is that these guys are just looking for money. They're not doing their straight business that is the trafficking. They see that they can get money from the people. That's what I think, that they kidnap. BURNETT: And it didn't used to be that way? JUAN: No. Well, you'll never hear stories like mine. BURNETT: The details of Juan's story could not be independently verified, but the fact of his kidnapping was confirmed by a fellow downtown merchant. And it's consistent with the rash of kidnappings that has plagued this region in recent years. Cartel members are preying on locals as alternative income. First, the killing and capture of major drug capos has led to the fragmentation of criminal syndicates in Tamaulipas State, as it has elsewhere in Mexico. A power struggle is underway within the Gulf Cartel between los ciclones in Matamoros and los metros in Reynosa, and no one is safe. Second, trafficking drugs is just harder these days. The U.S. side of the river is guarded by federal agents, state troopers and the National Guard, while Mexico has flooded Matamoros and Reynosa with military troops. Once again, the harder the Mexican government fights the cartels it seems the more misery it creates for the people. John Burnett, NPR News, Matamoros, Mexico. AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: This is NPR.