CREEPY NEIGHBOR who stands by the window (grasmere) Our entrance of the house is on the side of the house, not facing the street. There is a person always stands by the window and looks out the window as I go in and out of the house. I didn't notice until someone visited me and pointed out. It's so creepy. Please do not donate to wikipedia (Where does the $$$$$ go? !!) Jimmy Wales is begs, literally begs, for your hard-earned money. Yes, he is the "founder" of wikipedia. Basically a small-time businessman who figured out a way to set up a "non-profit" that needs zillions of dollars to operate. How much does Jimmy get? Who knows!!!!!!!! Why does he need ZILLIONS of dollars for a non-profit run by an army of (unemployed, illiterate) volunteers (who plagiarize legitimate sites)? wikipedia is pure crap. The writing is terrible and there are "wikirodents" who police the site using their knowledge of the site and connections to administrators to erase anything they disagree with. Most wikipages for celebrities and politicians etc. are basically fan pages. This is a disgraceful excuse for a so-called encyclopedia. Please let this thing die. Instead of giving money to a guy who doesn't need it, please donate to an organization that fights against international sex trafficking or some GOOD org. If you are 516, 718 , , 201 or 983 area codes; Y)OU AR NOT"" A NEW YORKER! get this thru your THICK skulls. Listen folks; UNLESS you are like 212 or even 646..then YOU CAN SAY: you have put up with pushy self righteious sidewalk scumbags; DOG shit, DODGING IT on the street... or WAITING IN LINES with elderly..like duane reades, Banks,, quick food restaurants; or Nervy damn idiot people...or smelling PISS in the subway;s; or PAYING high mtc. on a co op or condo OR VERRY HIGH RENT: or constantly trying to avoid thick tiny skulled GHETTO trash with their ipods playing looud thru their skull candy stupid cheap headphones;You haven't dealt with; and been bumped ON THE SHOULDER by IPOD scummies and they never apologize, everyone tuned out and NOT watching HOW EEVERYONE IS WALKING: NOBODY IS ACCOUNTABLE for their stuooopid walking habits in manhattan..if you live here...so..... THEN ONLY CAN YOU SAY I"M"" A NEW YORKER""" . . . period. Hey Capt. Horseshit! Stop letting people shit in your ears, it's beginning to seep into your brain. You what! You got me to talk? I don't even know who you are. Came up to Alaska, did you and strong arm me? Curious how did you get me to talk? Tickle torture? Reveal what? Your wet dreams or your never ending battle to eliminate the smell on your garbage skow? The only thing that Astronaught/Doctor Kenny Wethers can bust is a nut., but only is his hand is willing. More dreams from the non producing talkers. Back to the Skow and scrub those decks. Jerry Whatsamatta, a little bit cold for riding your Suzuki crotch rocket down the boulevard today. Little bitch should have put on real leather instead of a Walmart plush jacket. Bitch and moan, baby cakes. So funny. Pussy boy. We are a hip hop group, collectively called "Urban Monster", that packed our bags and left the life we knew (jobs, families, & friends) on the east coast, moving to nothing in LA but to chase a dream. We are working on a project and launched our very 1st kickstarter ever, to help fund our dream. We are working towards recording our single and shooting a video for it as well. To do this we are asking for a little help from everyone that shares our love for music. We wish for everyone to check out our page. Leave any questions or comments and we will be happy to get back to you soon. sooo... Her's what happend; i took the Long island RR train from Penn STation out to Great Neck, Long island, for my doctor appt; at 1:30pm no sooner I got off the train...(* i usually WALK the 1 mile it is to the doctor's office; so..had to CRAP so bad....there was a wooded, WOODS area along the highway, , soooo, I ducked in... Found a big girth tree..and in the cool, moist winter air pulled own my jeans and Crapped- yes, right at the base of the tree!! had kleenex in my pocket so I actually covered the mound. I WAS ALMOST 10 minutes late for my appt; I was running there...but nature took it's course..and I just Hope no deer or animal finds it... omg If you ride in a YELLOW cab, between the hours of 6pm - 5am, on any night, please check your driver's face, to his yellow cab license, displayed. You may be riding in a cab, where the driver does NOT even have a regular driver's license, and especially not, a yellow cab license. He pays his muslim friend, to use his yellow cab license. He is short, and always hides his bald head, under a cap. Do you want, to take a chance, driving with him, or perhaps, your children may be driving with him? Please, just for tonight, between these hours, and every night, if you remember, check your yellow cab driver's license displayed, carefully to his face, and write down his cab # and his driver's license #, and call the TLC, and report it immediately, if it does not match. He drives when it's dark, so you won't pay attention . SAVE A LIFE ! ahahahahahaaa "I'm gonna make a movie and the NRA is going to wish they weren't alive!!" "Plans have changed......I will be spending millions on a lawyer to keep me out of Rikers" ahahahahaaaa........where's the fucking movie Harvey?!?! Hey who was that fat asshole that just died of a heroin overdose in the city? Another RESPECTABLE anti gun Hollywood twat? I can't remember his name. You know who I'm talking about. Fat guy with glasses.......anyway Gotta love the left wing loonies of America rapists and drug addicts telling ME I gotta fill out paperwork for my guns!!?! pffffffffffffff ............YEAH OK! TAKE YOUR NEW MACBOOK PRO AND THE THUNDERBOLT PORT WHERE I NEED AN ADAPTER FOR EVERYTHING, AND SHOVE IT. I HATE YOU, APPLE. YOU USED TO BE AWESOME. AND NOW YOU JUST SUCK. ONLY 40 DOLLARS? FOR A GODDAMN ADAPTER? THAT I DIDNT NEED IN THE FIRST PLACE WITH MY PREVIOUS MBP? SERIOUSLY, YOU ARE THE WORST. I'M IRRATIONABLY ANGRY AT THIS. Need 1million dollars Thanks (Nanuet) Send to: :.Jean Denis 35 springbrook rd. Nanuet, NY10954 Greatly appreciate it... vitamin V (Chelsea) was amazing felt like a 21 year old again...was generic was just as good ....gonna try the Cialis tomorrow....was skeptical st first but worked like a charm.....any of you guys try it....thoughts please???? Finally found a source Here's a REAL American that will bring our country back together again to a time when a man's (and woman's) word was their bond. When we could walk down the streets at night and not get robbed. When people worked hard for a living and didn't moan about trite things (such as a stupid TV being given away and refused). So cast your vote on the "Beaver" ticket and show you are a proud American! Pictures and captions (below): PIX 1 - The "official" Beaver For President button. Given away to all REAL American citizens. Sorry, but the millions of illegal immigrants and Obama followers will not be getting any. PIX 2 - The President and his Cabinet (left to right): Eddie; the finance minister. People love a guy with a strong chin and the gleam of the devil in his eyes. He'll take care of your money for you as he has really deep pockets. Next is President Theodore, a kind hearted soul who always asks questions so you know he is up on current affairs and will not bamboozle the citizens, although his voice may make people cringe while making speeches. Wally, the Vice President who will keep The Beav in line as he has done all these years and will supply the President with nightly wedgies. Lumpy will be the food czar and will get America back into shape as he loves eating everything and anything including small children, unwanted pets and small automobiles. PIX 3 - June (Beaver's mom) will oversee that the boys play nicely or she will make them go clean their rooms. She will be our new Ambassador and can easily bitch slap any Communist and terrorist with ease. Nobody messes with June! PIX 4 - The White House will be demolished and rebuilt to look just like an ordinary house so people will feel right at home when visiting the nation's Capitol. Just remember to wipe your feet! ''Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thine arm they shall be as still as a stone till thy people pass over, O LORD, till the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.'' ''Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help. Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt. Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be Dark and Slippery: and let the angel of the Lord persecute them. For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul. Let Destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself into that very Destruction let him fall. Amen . . . I'm so sorry. Anonymous apology website. Read peoples apologies to loved one's family members and strangers. Unload your own regrets or learn from other peoples. "I silently judge people who are overweight. I probably eat as poorly as you do or worse and I know nothing of your struggles or about you as a person. I have my own problems even though I'm skinny and I think it makes me feel a little bit better about myself to see you and feel superior. I'm really sorry for this. Truly." Trumbull Edge: Complainy's back. (Teaching Spoiled People 101) STOP YOUR COMPLACENCY CRYING. It's embarrassing to the bored. Complainy's ? REALLY! PRICELINE: A DISGUSTING, UNDERHANDED & RACIST COMPANY!!!! (NORWALK, CT) I had purchased a ticket for my fiancee through Priceline, to visit me in Canada. Unfortunately a few days before her flight, she was informed about a passport issue that was not her fault and beyond her control. We simply asked and pleaded with customer service at Priceline to have her flight moved up by a week or two so that the Passport office could rectify their error. We even offered to pay a fee in terms of a penalty. They refused to change the date in any way, shape or form, and have basically stolen $600 from me. The experience with them has been appalling overall. Even when I purchased the ticket, they had their fraud department contact me with a lie stating that they had contacted my bank and they'd stated that the name on my card did not match their information! When I then in a panic had to take (unpaid) time during work hours to call my bank and find out what was going on, they had no idea as to what I was talking about. I then called Priceline and they said that it was just a routine "ruse" they used to see if customers are legitimate, and apologized. What nonsense is that?? I guess having a long foreign name is a red flag regarding their "policies." Stay away from any kind of bookings with this company!! THEY ARE THIEVES AND BIGOTS! Period! THEY WILL STEAL YOUR MONEY and make any trip you're planning a truly miserable experience! In addition to taking this scumbag organization to court, I will be posting my experience with these repugnant scumbags on every consumer website that I can find for as long as it takes, so that as many people as possible are aware of this dishonest and racist company! PLEASE READ If you don't know what Glass -- Steagall, Dodd -- Frank, The New Deal, B.R.I.C.S., A.I.I.B., Fusion Power or who we may go to war with next week -- YOU'D BETTER FIND OUT! We have been so isolated by our Press, our Administration and Congress that we have NO idea of the things going on outside of what we are told that could help or kill us. Our system needs change or we may soon join the dinosaurs as extinct! Go to LaRouchepac.com. . Will you be attending this year's Easter hunt in Washington this year on the great lawn? Or do you plan to plant tree's in remembrance of earth day? We Americans need more from you Con's. I am sure you have been thinking the same. Or None of the ABOVE? A little over 6 years in office & obama has terrorists in our Country. This was intentional to bring us down & feel the pain of third world countries where dictators caused the problems. Obama intentionally encourages illegal immigration to allow terrorists in. He has alligned himself with Iran, the second biggest liar in the world, next to him, to initiate the inevitable armaggedon. Al-Qaeda is on the run "no more boots on the ground" in Iraq. Clapper gave me wrong Intel. It's his fault. I promised to end the war in Iraq and I did. The war on terror is over The Islamic State is not Islamic ISIS is the JV Team We won't negotiate with terrorists I never ordered the Taliban swap, it was Hagel It's not my Syrian Red line it is the Worlds red line. Troops aren't volunteers Fort Hood was a workplace violence Benghazi was about a youtube video America is safer than before. Navy Corpse-Man Christian Brossard. I will put an end to the type of politics that "breeds division, conflict and cynicism". You didn't build that. I will restore trust in Government. The cops acted stupidly. I am not after your guns. The Public Will Have 5 Days To Look At Every Bill That Lands On My Desk. We got back Every Dime we Used to Rescue the Banks, with interest. I will close Gitmo. moon powered people? (sunset park) Is anyone out there only really feeling alive at night? I am always more inspired during early morning hours. It would be nice to find some like minded people to chat with and maybe link up with from time to time. sunset park park slope bay ridge Whoever fraudulently alters, defaces, mutilates, impairs, diminishes, falsifies, scales, or lightens any of the coins coined at the mints of the United States, or any foreign coins which are by law made current or are in actual use or circulation as money within the United States; or Whoever fraudulently possesses, passes, utters, publishes, or sells, or attempts to pass, utter, publish, or sell, or brings into the United States, any such coin, knowing the same to be altered, defaced, mutilated, impaired, diminished, falsified, scaled, or lightened - Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. - See more at: http://codes.lp.findlaw.com/uscode/18/I/17/331#sthash.ZmaNSlan.dpuf What's next Iron worker, are you going to try, selling bunny rabbits, for Easter in NYC. Only because it didn't work out selling Alligators ? Pretty funny NYC Iron Worker! We all know alligators aren't animals. So you did buy and sell reptiles YES. Didn't get out of that one. As well as your thinking everyone or most people are liberals? Well you would be right, on that one. The majority of all our United States of America's Arm forces put together are Liberals. We True Americans don't find that weird at ALL. And I am not a liberal. Keep dry, we wouldn't want any reptiles, to bite you in your ass again. KEY WORD CHASERS I AM  I had a rough day at work yesterday. I had to stop two members from killing each other. I don't know what it was about. I'm usually a pretty good eavesdropper, but it was very busy and I didn't have the time to do much chatting at that moment. Anyway, I was at the other end of the bar when I heard two voices getting louder and louder. The next thing I knew, there were two guys standing face-to-face and I can tell that fists were about to fly. So, I walked around the bar and over to them and I stepped in between them and did my best to calm things down, but they weren't going for it. I finally had to pick one of them and throw them out. So, I picked the one that appeared to be the one more capable of hurting someone whould a full-blown fight broke out. I wish there weren't so many younger members in my post. They really don't know how to act around alcohol. The Truth (Staten Island) "I am your Jesus, born Incarnate." "The purpose of these apparitions and Messages is, quite simply, to help souls discern the difference between good and evil.* This is the premise that will determine eternal salvation or condemnation of each soul, as well as the future of the world." "The greatest obstacle to this discernment is Satan's compromise of Truth. Never before has the evil one been so successful in disguising evil as good, for never before have world-wide communications been so quickly accessible. People must pray for Wisdom and avoid accepting information at face value. If you do not make the effort to verify the Truth, you are easy prey for Satan.**" "Make Holy Love the vestment of your conscience. Holy Love, which is the embrace of all the Commandments, will help you to embrace good and reject evil. I cannot tell you this enough. Each heart must begin to live this way. This is the way to disarm Satan and secure your salvation. It is the way to change the heart of the world. It is the fulfillment of My Mission here.***" Fuck your race: I'm a black woman with mental illness. Shit is real. That's ok though we all have our hardships, but why when I mention any pertaining to race your cry like a little over privileged bitch. When the fuck did I have to worry about making your lily white ass uncomfortable? Nigga I'm uncomfortable when I'm told to watch two Black guys in my store, no other description. Bitch I say ". . .so this white dude" and you start to cry. WHY IT GOT TO BE ABOUT RACE? Get the fuck out of here. I don't give a fuck about how poor you are, how transsexual you are, how gay you are, how short you are, bitch you're still white and shit, I'm still not dirt poor. See how that works? See how I can acknowledge my privilege with out marginalizing my disadvantages. Every black person is sick to death at holding their tongue so massa wont get upset. Changing their hair to get a job. Trying to be their whitest self so a nigga can feel worth something. FUCK YOU! my girlfriend's black and can produce a college yearbook picture. those three dirtbags probably never graduated anything so is that racism or reality? It's reality Furthermore I can tell you right now that my girlfriend and I are NOT PC homos who whine and cry about..... WAAAAAASICM! The faggot white liberal is ALWAYS telling people in interracial relationships how to act And they get laughed at by us. Oh how I wish I had my Video camera running (cops should be commended) She wanted to be in a movie and he said "sure if you get on my casting couch" Grabbed her and she ran away. the first time he's done this?......not a chance.....at his age? Nope. Only a moron would think that. So how many women did this animal prey on? Only time will tell. Hopefully his other victims come forward. Now we'll see liberals rally around this trash and blame the victim....trying to tell us this happened after the attack......Blaming the victim is common liberal practice in rape cases. I'm still looking forward to his anti NRA movie! I guess it's on "hold". Greenpoint Sanitation Fines (Brooklyn) Has the city gone nuts? I received 2 minor garbage fines for $25 in the last couple of months and I paid them because it wasn't worth it to fight them. Came home today and found a fine for $100 because I supposedly had garbage littering the street in front of my house. What bullshit. We're sweeping constantly and what was on the ground was some leaves and a few small items near my fence and behind it where my garbage pails are...Not to mention that garbage wasn't picked up for 2 consecutive garbage days on my block. People are constantly passing by and throwing garbage in my pails and on my street and down my basement steps and we sweep a lot. These pigs need to be fined. If the city wants to make money,send out sanitation employees and fine the people who are dropping litter everywhere. Am I supposed to stand out there 24/7 with a broom for every tiny piece of crap that lands near my property...Plus there's a new building under construction 2 doors down and the owners have never supervised the place to the point where my neighbor was getting fines due to their garbage flying everywhere constantly. Then you have the car services leaving their cards stuck between your doors, the restaurants dropping off menus,and the circulars being dropped off in those plastic bags. That should be illegal and sanitation should go after them first because they're big offenders. I'm fighting my fine by phone and they can kiss my ass if they won't dismiss it because I'm not paying this one. The last name of the sanitation officer was Chowdhury and he/she is really nitpicking thanks to the city giving them free reign to be an Ahole. I guess it's not enough that I pay over $800 a month in realty taxes. Time to move out of this filth laden abyss. Hey Goodell, cCovering Up DefateGate for Cheating Pats Again? WHERE'S THE RULING? WHERE IS THE FINE? WHO IS GUILTY? BRADY HAD TO KNOW. YOOU ARE AN ASS KISSING PATS STOOGE!!!!! Goodell, Find the missing Air Yet?Boro Of course not!!! Why not cover up for BelaCheat, Shady Brady & Crafty Kraft same as Spygate !!! You got all the balls and you know who handled them berween handoff to delivery to refs. You are a Total Disgrace cowtowin to these Foxboro Creeps 1111 Hang your head in hame, Asshole !! So this asshole thinks he is above the law and can call out anyone that isn't wearing a badge, your sorry ass shouldn't even be qualified to work as a street sweeper! You are a piece of shit, I hope you never work in law enforcement again and become homeless, that is the minimum that you deserve. If you have a family I hope they suffer as much pain as you dealt out because someone called you out for driving like shit and not using turn signals. You suck ass and you are the scum of the NYPD, unfortunately they need to do more scum cleaning because there seems to be an awful lot of that going on around this country. Maybe one day you will need the help of a regular civilian and they stand above you saying "What country did you come from" oh yeah, your that shit bag cop who sucks ass, sorry Cherry ass, you act like an ass, you will be treated like an ass! Have a fucked up day bitch!!!!!!! The CDC needs transparency and honesty. Many New Yorkers and those throughout the country are sick with Lyme or co-infections. Please contact your legislators and ask them to help make the CDC designate more resources to tick-borne illness and develop better testing and treatment. Thanks you. hey guys and gals this is not a scam.. if u want to make a few bucks every day during ur spare time let me know . I have a link to a pretty good online survery site.at a buck each doing 2 dollars a day do the math free money for 10-30 mins out of ur day.. you are not gonna get rich ok.. I am not here to tell u any different.. it is extra money for dinner or the movies etc... great for single moms or stay at homes parents or students send me an email and I will send u a link.. I just cashed out for 125 bucks on the 1st.. they will paypal or send u a check... thanks for checking out my ad Just curious to see if at some point they realize they look weird and silly . Do they stop trying hard to be unique only to find out that they're just like every other hipster on Bedford ? Do they get jobs and stop hanging out on street corners ? Do they clean up ? Is everybody here enjoying the LOON free forum, as I have been? Only one exception, the occasional cackle from Astronaught /Dr. Kenneth Wethers. He has now become my e-mail LOON. He recently sent me pictures of two fat, old and ugly people he cheeringly calls Mom and Dad. HEY! Maybe they're both Doctors! Dr. Kenneth Wethers. M.D. Dr. Edward Cristman. M.D. Cockologists. Have a good one. Jerry EMAIL CHAT? (NEW YORK) At work, boring day, looking to have an email conversation about anything on your mind. advise, relationships, work, sex, politics (nah) bueller, bueller, bueller? I thought this was supposed to be the real ny. All I saw during my visit was resident out of towners. Everyone is an artist of some sort. Ny is not a very interesting city at all. Visiting Chicago and Seattle before returning to London. I hope to enjoy these cities more. I was very disappointed with ny. Can we send Brad Paisley Back to Europe (Go the fuck back to Europe cracka) Can we send this EuroAmerican cracka back to Europe?? Hey Brad, I bet your hole entire ancestry in this country is probably less than 200 years. You fuckers really need to be calling yourselves EuroAmericans or Foreign Americans. The only real Americans this country ever had who have been here for over 15000 years are still living in perpetual concentration camps. Fuck your song. No, there is no forginess. Go the fuck back home to England, Ireland, Germany or whereever you people are from. and you wonder why Detroit went bust Hot Stock Tip (can't lose) (Wall Street) Beg, borrow or steal all you can get your hands on and buy every share of I G Farbin GmbH They are about to re-release a product that was mass produced in the 1930s and 1940s The product known as ZYKLON B will be going back into production immediately and is said that demand will be so great that the Farbin facility will need to hire additional personnel and expand manufacturing capabilities to keep up with orders . I literally searched a place online that would allow me to say what I'm almost 100% positive we've both been thinking for a long time now. And I can't fully say that I think it's love, nor can I fully say that I think it's lust. I think that from day one, you and I have had a very unique connection. A very understood, quirky, and familiar bond. You know all the reasons I know. It's that thing that is incredibly tangible, yet completely unmentionable. I want you Megan. I want you really bad. I want to know what it's like to touch you. Kiss you. Hear you moan. Taste you. Everywhere. I have fantasized often about that moment and that place where it is just you and I, and nobody else. I think up scenarios where we're stuck in an elevator, or you're in my car or in a room somewhere that nobody else knows about, and I can finally tell you. And I just have the strangest feeling Megan. I see it everyday with you. How close you get to me. How you almost look for an excuse to touch me. Get close to my face. Grab me. Today I tried to play a joke on you by telling you that I needed to talk to you about us. It wasn't a joke. It was me saving my ass and not putting something out there that neither of us can really do anything about. I'm married now. And you seem really happy with your man friend. And sometimes I wish that when I had asked you out years before, that you had allowed us to have the opportunity to see what could have been. I'm crazy. This is crazy. I love my wife so so much that I would never do anything to betray her. But some part of me is always trying to give you a hall pass. Because I knew you before I knew her. I can only hope & pray that this confession will help me in some way. Because if it doesn't, I may end up doing something that I will end up regretting..... Or not. Is a Flag not being shown. Behind Closed Doors Global warming is already underway with consequences that must be faced today as well as tomorrow. Evidence of changes to the Earth's physical, chemical and biological processes is now evident on every continent. To fully appreciate the urgency of climate change, it's important to understand the ways it affects society and the natural environment. Sea levels are rising and glaciers are shrinking; record high temperatures and severe rainstorms and droughts are becoming increasingly common. Changes in temperatures and rainfall patterns alter plant and animal behavior and have significant implications for humans. In this section, explore the connections between the climate data and the changes happening around you--and those you can expect to see in the future--in all parts of the globe, including your own backyard. Pretty Plz Read me Hello =] hope your day went well. So title kinda sums it all...let your imagination run lol My dilemma? Boredom is killing me. I have lots of free time lately due to taking few online courses at school. I am looking for one sane, easygoing guy who wants to employ me of sorts :] Personality? I'm very easygoing, silly, outgoing... just love to have fun. I'm very open-minded as well. Looks? if u into skinny, big boobs, pretty face , then i am your girl. You...i know this post is a bit vague but I am simply looking for something to keep me busy. All ideas are welcome. Belittle sorry you have a little trigger. And a short temper, sober, I am sure you still can't control yourself. Sounds to us you need to call your sponsor. RIGHT AWAY! Best of Lucky! With a mouth like yours we see how you have so called friends. Does your trainer know about your recent blunders. If not belittle you must be talking to yourself again. ey , found a photo of you holding the crime scene down with your gun , player. LoL Hey folks, DOWN ON YOUR LUCK? JUST LOST YOUR JOB? NEED YO SUPPLEMENT YOUR INCOME? WOULD LIKE TO BE YOUR OWN BOSS? Then check out the link below. . .. . ... Cheers Just what we need ! Another asshole who thinks he is justified to use his gun ,for a m/v safety issue . Dickhead do the public a favor and go turn in your permit to carry , you don't even suggest pulling a gun this day and age , and not on a public forum dummy! You going to hold a gun to everyone with a blown headlight? YOU ARE THE ASSHOLE , and i think your photo is for you not me , i don't need a gun bitch , i don't need to feel safe with one , it's called being a man u little bitch , oops did i insult you "don't shoot" , LOL your the fucking danger to all of us on the road , with your police fantasy bullshit , anyone reading this watch your ass on the road , we have a man w a gun who takes traffic stops pretty serious , someone please pull this assholes license , i am done with this keyboard warrior pussy shit , you know where i eat at if you want to come apologize for being a bitch , LOL I am not that good at this. Your move! Threatening w a gun ? you are a police officer i am guessing right? The whole taser thing and holding me at gunpoint ? Loudmouth ,someone needs to take your permit before you pull that gun on the wrong person , and if you are a cop , which sounds like it to me , you are a fucking disgrace to the entire p/d you work for , and if you are just a dummy w a permit , i am sure you will be a statistic soon , and for your info dickhead , i have been clean and sober for 8 yrs , i think you need help before you shoot someone , or somebody you pulled it on ,sticks it up your ass and pulls the trigger till it clicks, i am going to do something no one does on here to try and help you see the light , i am at the sycamore drive in every morning getting coffee at 830 , i am 6 ft tall , 200lbs , long hair , bandana , tattoos , u can't miss me , why don't you come talk to me ? We can discuss all the nasty shit you posted about me ? maybe we can discuss why you think tasing , and pointing guns at people is something you think is ok ? Let me guess you probably shoot black folks too right ? You sound like the ignorant asshole to me my friend , you know where i am if you like to chat sweetheart.... I just love it when people curse for a lack of thinking. With {trainees} like above we see it's easier to reach inside your brain for curse words, because that's all they got. Hey brain impaired, you weren't talking with me. Yet thinking of me Priceless. I am ........................... LMAO!!! Tiny it sounds like you're a little jerk trigger happy. We hope you do that behind, closed doors. Nobody wants to be confused watching you fidget your little trigger. They might think you're just doing your nails. {If you're not going to do it right, don't do it wrong} And you boast about logic. I am ................................ LMAO!!! I'm overweight and single. I keep toying with the idea of putting up a personal ad, but I feel like no one would want me. The last guy who slept with me was drunk. Yesterday, I read the comment by Trevor Noah about fat girls who are hoping to get laid on the weekend because maybe a drunk person will find them sexy. I've been crying on and off since. I can't shake the feeling. I want to talk to someone so badly. If you feel like you can relate to this, please write me. Send them to Arkansas, buy them a Big Mac and a wedding cake in the process. this guy acts like a pimp but he a cop beware he trying to get girls so he can eventually arresy them I have several dotcom start-up ideas and I am sick and tired of people telling me they are bad, therefore I am hoping to find a full time "Yes" man or woman. First here is a sample of some of my ideas, I am going to patent them so don't even try to steal it from me! 1. Sell books online: Allow people worldwide to visit a webpage and they can order any book they wish and have it shipped to them. I know there are companies who do this already but what will set us apart will be we will include a peppermint candy or another cute freebie in the box. 2. Let people book hotels online: YEAH yeah I know some companies are doing this already but we will be way better than them, we will offer like a way for you to share socially what you are booking and like see photos, boy this will go viral ohhmygod, I can't believe I am sharing this online. 3. Start a search engine: This will enable people to search for ANYTHING online. I know there is some geeks running companies like google and yahoo but think about how blahh their homepage is. We will hire amazing artsy people and make a cool homepage with nice designs that will go viral right away and no, we will not sell our business to GOOGLE, NO WAY, to Microsoft maybe if they ask nicely and offer 10 figures. 4. Start a news site: Instead of going to many news sites a day imagine being able to go to just one that have like news from other sites. As we grow we will buy up all the big media companies. For some reason people do not like these ideas, and honestly I am tired of hearing what I don't want to hear. If you are able to listen to ideas like these all day and agree that they are awesome then please let me know ASAP. S.C.A.A. Convention Seattle 2015 (coffee) How to defraud another company. Probat on Nabob Coffee/Kraft Foods. Karl Schmidt/Don MacDonald will explain how the two of them defrauded Nabob Coffee/Kraft Foods out of $1.3 million. Two drag queens steel a john's car, ... ... rob a bank, get lost during getaway, drive into NSA headquarters and get shot. Love is love, but stalking... Saw an ad about the other day about a woman stalking a man, always trying to be near them, interact with them, showing how much they care about them. The man filed a restraining order against them, claiming they were being harrassed and scared for their life. Is there anything really wrong with a woman showing so much attention to a man she loves and cares for. You may label them as crazy or deranged, but I just think that is a devoted, passionate woman who has so much love to give. The guy is probably too shallow to acknowledge her existence, or too afraid to be in a relationship with a good, loving woman. Or alternatively, he is already in a relationship, in which case, sure, her advances may be unwanted. But something could be reasonably worked out without getting the police involved. Don't be so close minded to that beautiful, caring woman who offers the world to you. She could end up being the best thing to ever happen to your life. I missed out on someone who offered so much love and respect and I regret it every day. I've told myself every day that if I ever had the opportunity to be with as passionate a woman as she was, who loved so unconditionally, I'd take the chance in a heartbeat. Don't make my mistakes and close the door on a fantastic love. Sawzall for sale excellent conditionCome check it out Good working condition don't need must go clearance Let's get you straightened out a bit, jerk off. Every driver with a cell should report you. You shouldn't be driving. The truck is "very hard to steer?" LMAO HEY STUPID MAYBE IT'S NOT REPAIRED RIGHT!! DUH! You must think we're all as stupid as you. I love your "logic" and lame excuse. So...every time we get our car fixed we have to re-learn how to drive it? You and your "repairman" are both assholes. You were probably drunk in the daytime....or your pills just kicked in. You say "a little hard learning to drive it with the new front end." Thank you caller for reporting an obviously stupid person with a "bad front end." You're lucky it wasn't me behind you. I would have held you at gun point until the cops came and drug/alcohol tested you...or saw you were driving a fucked up vehicle on our roads. LOL tell a cop that the truck was "a little hard to learn to drive with a new front end" and you'll be right where you belong asshole...on your belly, tased and cuffed.. blowing into a Breathalyzer. Or you'll be in a cab home after they impound an unsafe vehicle you endanger all of us with because you are stupid. Sattlilite junk yard Anyone know what there building on the property that was formally sattilite junk yard ? I've heard it was bought by Pepsi and they plan to build a huge warehouse ? Anyone know ? Thanks !!! Uterus for rent!! Looking for anyone interested in renting my uterus out. I've had this one for a bunch of years but I've never really used it. I know closet space is pretty tight in the city, so offering a 2-4-1 deal. (Though that only applies if I'm already preggers and you want me to hold your car keys or something small.) I'm an artist and have a bunch of student loans so any money raised will go towards that. No drugs or anything here! (Though I do enjoy a few mimosas with brunch.) But if you're interested in surrogacy, no biggie. Uterus is $100 a month or $35 weekly. Serious inquiries only. soul cycle is ruining my marriage This may sound odd, but I can't be the only one.. The cult, that is "Soul Cycle" is having an adverse impact on my marriage. Is there anyone else out there who has a wife/girlfriend/significant other who also drank the SC cool aid??? would love to talk with someone about it. Can't sleep... (Brooklyn) I've been having a hard time getting any sleep for the past three months. I've tried everything from melatonin to Benadryl to no avail. I heard Ambien works well... If anyone has any (brand or generic) contact me via text at show contact info Thanks. A Texas mother was arrested for leaving her 7-year-old daughter in a dumpster overnight after saying that she drank vodka but remembered little else about the evening, Alicia Carroll, 28, was charged with abandoning and endangering a child. The girl said her mother told her to get into the trash container after the two left a spa because police were chasing them! hey, Would you help a guy out? I need a place away from prying eyes where I can get it on with my girl during the day. An office or room would be great. Someplace without a lot of prying eyes or ears. Any advise or help. Southern Manhattan is ideal. Thank you. Under the Skin (Upper East Side) Call in to the show five85 3 0 0 4uts Bruce Jenner/Jamie Foxx?? Is he a man, is he a chick or Talk about what you want to talk about..... I do not weff like jeff I'm not for jeff the weff is filled with snot and running down his giant nose is the blood that will come if he ever shows cuz hes a green eggs and ham I yam worst kind of coward and the regulars at Kelsey's say he tried to arrange an open mike there but his was as worthless as penny's down under and Murdoch is the one who taught him to sTalk Mike on bike: wear a helmet when you cycle, your head really isn't as hard as your writing indicates. Geez, skimping on cab fare in one thing, but don't takes chances with that head. Let me just start off by letting you know that I am no pessimist. If anything, I am the most cheerful and bubbly person you will ever meet. I am always the first one to use the line "Well, let's look on the bright side..." When it comes to your problems, I'll bring your hopes up and I'll keep them up because I'm just that type of friend. When it comes to my problems, well lets just go ahead and say that "it's my fault" and I should just "do things" and I should just "get a job". Hey, thanks friend, that helps me a lot. Now go fuck yourself. I do so much for people, I've spent my high school years participating in all these volunteering opportunities, after school programs, summer jobs, etc. Where has that gotten me? I can't land a job or an internship, I can't even get a babysitting gig. I spend hours typing up cover letters and editing my resume, and I either don't get a reply or I get a message that starts off with "We regret to inform you..." I am just a freshman in college and I am already finding it hard to obtain a position that will pay me and give me experience that I can use in life; I know how to make my own sandwich and burgers at this point, so no I will not apply to McDonald's or Wendy's or any other fast food restaurants. Am I trying too hard? Am I not trying enough? Do I smell weird? Is it because I smell weird that I have trouble making friends on campus? I mean, I shower often, use deodorant, perfume, only wear washed clothes, etc. I think I smell pretty damn good, sooooo it's obviously not me, it's you. You stink potential employers for not hiring me, you stink college kids that can't hold a decent conversation and be my friend, you all STINK. Now that I've gotten that out of my system, let's look at the bright side of things! Only 37 or so more years until I can retire This whole situation is way above anything I've ever been put into, but I need to write something. I've never done anything like this before and I am unsure of how to continue. If there is a pre-established method, I'm sure not seeing the cry out in uniformity here. All I can say with certainty is that I am sick. I was sick, I guess. Whether it's psychosomatic or devine or simply a temporary lull in issues/symptoms, I can not say for certainty. What I can also say is that nothing has ever had this effect. I am technically advertising, though it is asked of me now, to say "Thank you." to St Jude. If this has some psychological link, then here it is. I'm making it now. I have never felt this good before and I've only changed one thing in my life. I haven't paid a penny, no one tried to sell me anything and all I had was personal experiences. I am unsure how to finish. Or even if I began properly, but I want to do more. this little block of text on the internet doesn't make up for the difference made, so I don't know how to add value to this equation. I don't know. Maybe I'll advertise to people who will listen in the future? Those that are sick? Guidance was barely given, and I wasn't expecting a result... but here I am with one. Please, sorry and thank you if you're reading. I think it's pretty illuminating going through something like this. Changes the way you see the world I guess. Maybe everyone goes through something like this? When they ask or need? A significant personal experience that can not be shared fully? When they are ready and willing? I don't know... I'll end definitively. I was given help, I think. I felt nothing physically except for a complete removal of my long-standing sickness. Years of fear and doubt over this problem are gone. I owe more than I have given and I want to give more, but for now, this is here. Payment in full I suppose. St Jude, Thaddeus... is apparently the closest title I can find to apply to the idea, service and individual. Thank you. I think someone or something did something positive and I wish I knew more. My doctor doesn't believe me, but he can't argue with the scans. "False negative." is the term they used. Not twice in a row, buddy. Something good happened here. Thank you. So I'm looking at News 12 a week ago and see this guy named Drew Morgan pleads guilty to bilking a charity for special needs children out of over a million bucks along with 2 elderly women for half a million in an investment scheme. He spent money on a country club membership, family vacations, eating out, booze and expensive golf trips!! This guy should have his nuts cut off. Have any of you seen him? He looks like a hybrid of Bart Simpson and Butterbean. He has a daughter with Downs Syndrome and she was a participant in the charity. What a low life degenerate!! His wife , who is a school teacher is either complicit or the stupidest bitch on the East Coast. To all of the Parents of Camp Anchor, all I can say is this is a sad unfortunate event but better times await all of us when Drew gets put into general population in a state prison that's when the fun really begins. Broke Back Mountain--The Sequel will begin. Once the fellas in the joint know what he did, Drew will be in fear for his life. Let's see what that fat man does then. Hey Drew there's no golf course or steak dinners or coolers of Heineken waiting for you just some young juiced up buck waiting to hit your colon so hard you will bleed each and every day of your incarceration. Enjoy. Question I once knew someone who impersonated an MTA bus driver, and is currently going to court,will she face jail time? Especially in her case she did it for the money, getting benefits and getting help from an actual Superintendent of the MTA who hooked her up, yet she was busted, after selling monthly cards which turn out to be refill cards, should she end up in jail for this. Just a couple of happy go lucky guys seeking a knowledgeable and thirsty tour guide for a trek through the beautiful town of seaford. Liquid Compensation at all stops pending historical knowledge and elite navigation. I moved from NYC over a decade ago. I worked on Wall for a couple of years when I was very young. I was wondering if men who have to dress in a nice suit for work still wear over the calf dress socks? I can't get used to shorter ones (they feel like they are falling down), and I don't like to show skin when sitting with my legs crossed or pants pulled up a bit. Where I live now in Colorado the businessmen wear what I call after thought socks, very thick, gym like, short, ugly, faded, yuk. Has this come true in NYC? God I hope not, thanks. Does anyone still wear sock garters with mid calf socks? Yes, Complainy is here again. Same weak, shallow whining about life, and all our daily many inconvenient or unpleasant incidents. Instead of learning the important lesson I imparted in my post, you pout like a petulant child and toss assumed nonsense about me and my post. Ok, sweetie, let's take you back to the woodshed, smack you around some more and see if you'll learn life's a bit better when you're not whining about it's down sides. But now Complaining Carol has launched a lame attack on my post pointing out that someone going to a public gym and complaining some guy's body odor is... how can I say this again? I had two good analogies that went over your crybaby head- like someone going to a public pool and complaining that you saw a fat guy's butt crack through his bathing suit or someone going to a Yankee's game and whining about the crowd cheering loud and the assault on your gentle nature because some guy had mustard on his chin eating a hot dog. You are an idiot. When I "have suffered odor real time?" Honey, I've assisted on autopsies, incised skin with a scalpel, peeled it back, took a rib cutter and cut out the rib cage. I've incised a dead person's scalp, peeled it back and used a bone saw to cut off the top of the skull. I watched the pathologist open the intestines and smelt and saw what their last meal was. I didn't complain. I worked at a nursing home. I chased senile people in hospital gowns down the hall with shit running down their legs. I showered and cleaned them and put them back in bed. No complaint. I cut dead flesh out of bedsores so large you could see the white hip bone. I've held stinking dying people in my arms. What is the point of being "offended?" You man up and do the job. I've shoveled out a Catskill hotel's garbage pit on a 95 degree summer day, with rotting smelly food and unearthing litters of baby rats that were white, squirming with no hair yet. I cut them in half with the shovel edge to kill them. Again, why complain? I suppose I could have called PETA and sued the hotel for a 'hostile birthing environment' for the poor baby rats. So, Sally....I know a little of odor and dealing with life's uglier moments without crying about it. I'm a minion too. I've worked construction like a donkey. I worked hard and with luck, earned a shit load of money on Ebay- maybe because I wasn't focused on little things like a bad smell at a public gym. I wasn't "lecturing you" on your post. I was pointing out that you are a whining baby that can't accept the little things in all our lives. I bet you have unicorn and rainbow wallpaper and a Hello Kitty dildo. "What I choose to read?!" Again you are way off normal. You posted on a public, online website. People do reply to posts on CL, it's kind of what the page is about. Our ancestors didn't die defending freedom so you can be intolerant of life and post adolescent meaningless temper tantrums online. Grow the fuck up. And toughen up. I bet you order an Oreo cookie white chocolate frappacino latte gay-spresso at Starbucks. I assume you're a woman (if you are an American man, this country is truly lost) what are you going to do when you change your baby's diaper? Post on CL about how rude your baby is? What if Junior vomits on your blouse? I can't wait to see that post. I told you before- if you use a public gym....deal. Lol....how 'bout this? I do an EFT to your bank so you can buy gym shit, put it in your home and stop being a Boo Hoo Betty. You are a 'glass half empty' petty malcontent. Everyone's shit stinks except yours. You modern Americans are weak and spoiled perpetual children.