'King of Revenge Porn' pleads guilty, faces up to 7 years in prison The 28-year-old man dubbed the "king of revenge porn" pleaded guilty Wednesday to federal computer hacking and identity theft charges for posting stolen nude photos online, prosecutors said. Hunter Moore of Woodland entered his plea in a downtown Los Angeles courtroom before U.S. District Judge Dolly M. Gee, who will sentence him in June. He faces up to seven years in prison and three years of probation, according to the U.S. attorney's office. "Most people do not feel that seven years is enough," said Charlotte Laws, a longtime community advocate in L.A. who alerted the FBI that her daughter's photos were on Moore's website. "The fact that he's going to prison is a victory. It does set a precedent; it does send a message." Some of the photos on his site were sent in by individuals who sought revenge by handing over nude or sexually graphic images without a person's permission, Moore admitted in court. Other photos were sourced through hacking. In his plea agreement, Moore said that he told an associate, Charles Evens, to illegally access illicit photos stored on email accounts, prosecutors said. After Evens forwarded the photos, Moore published them online, also without consent, he admitted in his plea agreement. Evens, 26, of Studio City, faces several felony charges, including conspiracy, hacking and identity theft. He's scheduled to go on trial March 17. Michael Jackson's pet alligators burned alive in animal park fire Michael Jackson's beloved pet alligators were killed in a fire at an exotic-animal park in Oklahoma, the park owner said. The late pop star's seven alligators and a crocodile died in the March 26 blaze that also destroyed a video production studio at Garold Wayne Interactive Zoological Park in Wynnewood, Okla., said owner Joe Schreibvogel. In a YouTube video, he said the animals were "boiling alive in a towering inferno" in the fire that occurred sometime between 2:30 and 4:30 a.m. The exotic pets once belonged to the late musician and were taken from Neverland Ranch in Santa Barbara County after it closed. Garvin County Sheriff Larry Rhodes told the Oklahoman that deputies suspect arson because the park received a threat before the fire. He said the state's fire marshal and the FBI were investigating the blaze. But Schreibvogel believes the fire was a personal attack perpetrated by someone trying to "make a statement" and get him off the air. Schreibvogel used the video production studio to host his own show, "Joe Exotic TV." "They might have shut me up for just a little while, but let me tell you they have awoken a monster," he said. "Now, Joe Exotic is pissed off." The park has come under fire in the past. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has said the park is a "poorly run facility." Fresno's deputy police chief resigns amid drug dealing charges Fresno's deputy police chief, who is facing charges that he conspired to distribute drugs, resigned Friday. Keith Foster's resignation was effective immediately, according to a statement from his attorney, Edward Marshall Hodgkins. Foster was placed on paid administrative leave after his arrest last week. "After much reflection, and on the advice of counsel, he has determined that his effectiveness in the department would be severely limited even if he is ultimately exonerated of the federal charges currently pending against him," his attorney said. Foster, 51, who had been with the department for nearly 29 years, had been deputy chief since 2007. He was arrested March 26 on charges that he conspired to distribute heroin, oxycodone and marijuana, according to a criminal complaint. The charges came after a year-long investigation. Authorities say several people were involved in what a federal investigator labeled the "Foster drug-trafficking organization," including two people believed to be related to the deputy chief: Iran Dennis Foster and Randy Flowers. Investigators with the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives followed Keith Foster in December 2014 as he drove his black BMW to a Rite Aid pharmacy drive-through and picked up a prescription for 100 oxycodone pills, according to a sworn affidavit filed in U.S. District Court. A month later, they followed him to the pharmacy again, where he picked up an identical order, authorities said. This time, Foster drove to Flowers' home, where they believe he dropped off the pills, according to the affidavit. Flowers, 48, also was arrested and charged, authorities said. On Dec. 24, investigators were listening to Foster's phone calls and heard him ask convicted drug dealer Rafael Guzman "if he knew someone who was trying to get some of 'the black,'" or black tar heroin, according to the affidavit. He asked what "the ticket" was, referring to the price, authorities said. Guzman, 41, replied, "It depends, how good of clothes they want … at my cost now they'll say about a rack for the best. We're talking about some China white though, you know what I mean?" according to the affidavit. Investigators say Guzman was indicating it would probably cost $1,000 per ounce for the best quality of white powder heroin. Guzman was arrested and charged with conspiracy to distribute heroin. Iran Foster and Jennifer Donebedian, 35, were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to distribute drugs, authorities said. S.F. police chief: Officers should be fired for 'hateful' text messages San Francisco Police Chief Greg Suhr called Friday for seven more officers who allegedly exchanged racist and homophobic text messages to be fired. "The officers responsible for the reprehensible texts should be separated from the SFPD as soon as practical," Suhr said in a statement. "The fine, right-minded men and women of the SFPD that are of the impeccable character required of a… police officer expect no less." Suhr's recommendation followed a revelation that at least 14 officers and department employees had been messaging each other with racist and homophobic comments and jokes about citizens and coworkers. The texts were exposed in a court filing during the trial of former SFPD Officer Ian Furminger, who was convicted and sentenced to 41 months in prison for corruption pending an appeal. The seven officers have been suspended, and an eighth has already resigned. The group exchanged messages "of such extreme bias" that they can no longer serve, Suhr concluded. Their cases have been forwarded to the police commission with the recommendation they be fired. Two other officers exchanged single text messages that violated department policy, but Suhr said he would let the commission hear their explanation before recommending any discipline. They have been moved to desk jobs. Four other officers involved in the scandal in tangential ways violated department policy but shouldn't be fired, Suhr said. They could be suspended for up to 10 days without pay, officials said. The messages showed a degree of bias among some officers that forced San Francisco County prosecutors to reexamine some 1,000 criminal convictions the officers were involved in, officials said. "In order to ensure our criminal justice system is fair and equitable, my office is conducting an immediate assessment of every prosecution within the past ten years where these officers were involved," San Francisco Dist. Atty. George Gascon said in a statement after the messages came to light. Public defender Jeff Adachi on Tuesday estimated that could amount to at least 1,000 cases among the five officers. Officials identified more than 120 in just the last two years, he said. "We look forward to reviewing all the cases and reports made by the officers involved in sending or responding to the racist texts. We expect that this will significantly widen our investigation beyond the 1,000 estimated cases that must be reviewed," Adachi said in a statement Friday. "The characterization of these hateful statements as innocent banter is dead wrong. This casual dehumanization leads to real life suffering and injustice. It foments a toxic environment in which citizens fear and distrust the police, brutality reigns, and good officers are less effective." In the text messages, the officers referred to minorities as "savages," used a racial slur to refer to African Americans and suggested they be spayed like animals, and used an epithet for gays. Other text messages insulted Filipinos and Mexicans. Adachi called for officers to receive 24 hours of training so they could be more aware of biases they might hold and for the department to assign more minority officers to work in their own communities, among other recommendations. A second officer was expected to resign Friday, KCBS San Francisco reported. Josh Hamilton will not be suspended for substance-abuse relapse  An arbitrator has ruled Angels outfielder Josh Hamilton will not be suspended for a substance abuse relapse, meaning he could return to the club as early as May. But while several players and Manager Mike Scioscia on Friday expressed support, concern and affection for Hamilton —"We're pulling for him as a person, more than anything else," closer Huston Street said —Hamilton won't necessarily be welcomed back with open arms. General Manager Jerry Dipoto said in a statement the Angels "have serious concerns about Josh's conduct, health and behavior," and team President John Carpino said it "defies logic" that Hamilton's behavior did not violate the drug program. The comments came off as insensitive to many who expressed their objections on social media, but Dipoto did not back down from them in a news conference at Angel Stadium before Friday night's exhibition game against the Dodgers. "Do I agree with the decision made by the treatment board? Absolutely not," Dipoto said. "This is a disappointing moment, make no mistake. … We have a responsibility to the human being. We also have a responsibility to the product on the field, the organization, the fan base, the industry. It's a complicated web." Hamilton, who self-reported his use of cocaine and alcohol to the league, was not in camp with the Angels this spring as he rehabilitated from Feb. 4 surgery on his right shoulder. The five-time All-Star with the Texas Rangers has failed to live up to the expectations of the five-year, $125-million contract he signed before 2013, his two seasons in Anaheim marked by injury and ineffectiveness. His relapse fueled the frustration of a club that has gotten little return on its investment. "Josh came with a very well-known story of addiction, and we understood the complications that sometimes travel with that," Dipoto said. "We are not here to short-sell the troubles and reality of addiction. But there is a responsibility, a professional responsibility, to do the job you're asked to do. "Every player is going to be held to that standard. That's just life. … We've expressed support for Josh throughout, but we're not going to sugar-coat what the issues are with the team as we move forward." Those issues include the likely distraction Hamilton will cause when he returns and the challenge Scioscia will face in integrating Hamilton back into a lineup that may be better off without him. Matt Joyce, a 2011 All-Star acquired from Tampa Bay, and Collin Cowgill will share left field in Hamilton's absence, and Joyce and second-year slugger C.J. Cron will share designated hitter duties. All three have looked strong this spring. "We're going to take this process one step at a time," Scioscia said. "The most important thing is Josh getting himself where he needs to be. Addiction is a terrible thing, and he's trying to deal with that." Dipoto said Hamilton is taking several hundred swings a day off a tee, but he has not resumed full baseball activities. Hamilton would likely need a lengthy minor league rehabilitation assignment before returning. Like the Angels, Commissioner Rob Manfred disagreed with the arbitrator's ruling. A statement issued by MLB said he "will seek to address deficiencies in the manner in which drugs of abuse are addressed under the program in the collective bargaining process." Hamilton's case was submitted to a treatment board, which is made up of two attorneys and two physicians —one of each appointed by the commissioner's office and the players' union. The board deadlocked on whether Hamilton violated the policy, and an arbitrator was appointed to break the tie. With no violation, Manfred could not impose any penalty on Hamilton, who may have helped his cause by self-reporting his relapse. The gist of the ruling, according to a person familiar with the decision but not authorized to comment on it, is that the arbitrator believed Hamilton's behavior was more of a "slip" than a violation. "Josh came forward —he admitted fault," Angels pitcher C.J. Wilson said. "That's a very manly thing to do in this day and age when everyone's trying to cover stuff up and buy off people." For most of the last eight seasons, Hamilton, who was suspended from baseball from 2004 to 2006, has traveled with an "accountability partner," whose job is to help Hamilton resist the temptations that could derail his career. Hamilton downsized the role of his accountability partner in 2014, but Dipoto said Shayne Kelley, who served in a full-time role in 2013, will return this season. $25-billion Sacramento-San Joaquin delta tunnel project reexamined Gov. Jerry Brown's administration is overhauling its proposal for a controversial tunnel project in the Sacramento-San Joaquin delta in the wake of doubts about whether water exporters can meet stringent federal conditions for operating the system over a 50-year period. The $25-billion Bay Delta Conservation Plan is intended to lessen the environmental harm of delta water exports by restoring about 100,000 acres of delta fish and wildlife habitat and building two massive tunnels under the delta that would carry Sacramento River water from a new diversion point to existing pumping facilities that fill southbound aqueducts. A major goal of the plan is to gain a 50-year environmental permit for delta exports that would ease the endangered species restrictions that have cut delta deliveries to San Joaquin Valley growers and the urban Southland. But state water officials have concluded that the federal requirements for such long-term approvals are too onerous for the water exporters to meet. "We are considering a lot of different ways of proceeding with the program," said Mark Cowin, director of the state Department of Water Resources. He declined to provide details. Sources familiar with the state discussions said that it is likely the department will separate the habitat restoration component from the tunnel proposal and pursue shorter-term operating permits for the new diversion facilities and existing pumping operations. Although the Bay Delta plan included restoration money, it is unclear how the separate restoration effort would be funded or carried out. While the changes would not affect construction of the tunnels, they have raised concerns that the restoration work could fall by the wayside. And the revisions, expected to be released in coming weeks, could also make the project less attractive to the urban water and agricultural irrigation districts that have promised to pick up the roughly $15-billion construction tab. Cowin said that while changes are still being worked out, the state will move ahead with plans to both build the tunnels and restore delta habitat. "I'm as committed to improving delta conveyance and making the other necessary improvements to the delta … as I've ever been," Cowin said. The tunnel proposal, in the planning stages for nearly nine years, predates Brown's administration. But it is a variation of a doomed peripheral canal project Brown supported in his second term as governor. Voters in 1982 killed that proposal, which called for the construction of a large canal to carry Sacramento River water around the delta to export pumps. Proponents say the new diversion point and tunnels would reduce harmful environmental impacts of the pumping operations, which draw directly from the south delta, killing delta smelt and migrating salmon. The pumps are so powerful that they reverse the direction of delta waterways and have profoundly altered natural hydrologic cycles. Although the current tunnel project was not conceived as drought protection, backers say easing pumping restrictions would allow more water to be sent south of the delta in wet years, boosting drought reserves in the Southland and San Joaquin Valley. The plan revisions would represent more than just a bureaucratic change. The agricultural and urban water districts that are the major drivers of the long-planned project were betting that a 50-year permit would stabilize delta deliveries that have been restricted by increasingly stringent protections for endangered fish. Reverting to shorter-term approvals would leave future water deliveries vulnerable to cuts associated with a change in permit conditions. And that raises questions of whether the project is still worth the money to the districts that have promised to pay for the tunnels. "We don't really know what the permitting will be 10 years from now, 15 years from now," said Jeffrey Kightlinger, general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, which would cover a portion of the tunnels' cost. "That's the challenge in making sure it's a sound investment. Does it pencil out and still make sense?" On the other hand, Kightlinger said that if the water exporters don't have to plan for a half century of evolving delta conditions, "it makes an easier path to permitting" and construction, which is expected to take seven years. "I think there are pros and cons" to what the state is considering, he said. Federal fishery agencies have not been persuaded that the habitat improvements will significantly benefit imperiled fish. They also are demanding higher outflows of fresh water from the delta to the ocean to help restore natural hydrologic cycles with which native fish evolved. To obtain the 50-year permit, the state and water exporters would have to commit to maintaining those outflows under a variety of conditions over half a century. They could do that by either paying upstream diverters to release water that would flow through the delta or by reducing water exports. That would cost more money and water than they can commit to now. "If we jettison the 50-year permit term," Cowin said, "we may wind up having to put those kinds of assets on the table over time. But we don't have to do it up front." Supported by the largest urban water and irrigation districts in the state, the tunnel project is opposed by delta residents and many environmentalists who argue it will lead to greater exports at the expense of the delta environment. Separating plans for the habitat work from the tunnel construction only adds to their concerns. "Once again, the promise of mitigation and restoration in the delta is taking a back seat," said Patricia Schifferle, director of Pacific Advocates, an environmental group. "One cannot trust that the mitigation will actually get done." $828,000 raised for Indiana pizzeria that said it won't cater gay weddings A fundraiser for the owners of an Indiana pizzeria that became the target of widespread animosity after they said they wouldn't cater a same-sex wedding reception has collected more than $828,000 from anonymous donors. A GoFundMe page started by a producer from The Blaze, a conservative news network founded by Glenn Beck, has drawn more than 28,500 donors. "The intent was to help the family stave off the burdensome cost of having the media parked out front, activists tearing them down, and no customers coming in. Our goal was simply to help take one thing off this family's plate as the strangers sought to destroy them," wrote Lawrence Jones, a producer who works for Blaze personality Dana Loesch. "But other strangers came to the rescue and the total just keeps going up." The Walkerton pizzeria was dragged to the center of a national debate over Indiana's Religous Freedom Restoration Act on Tuesday, when Crystal O'Connor told a local television reporter her family would refuse requests to cater a same-sex wedding reception because it conflicted with their faith.  The comments quickly gained national attention, as activists said the pizzeria highlighted concerns that Indiana's legislation allowed blanket protections for businesses that engaged in discriminatory practices. Crystal's father, Kevin O'Connor, told The Times on Wednesday that he has no problem with same-sex couples, and had not sought to make a declaration that he wouldn't serve them. His daughter was simply responding to a television reporter's question, O'Connor said, and he had not been asked to cater a wedding before she made those comments. "We service anyone. I don't care who it is. I don't care if they're covered with tattoos, I don't care if they got rings in their ears. I don't care if they're gay. The only thing I said was I cannot condone gay marriage," O'Connor, 61, had told The Times. He expressed concerns that he might go out of business because of the comments, and later shut down the store after receiving threats, according to local media accounts. Loesch interviewed the O'Connors earlier this week, and the GoFundMe page was started shortly after. She published a sarcastic blog post Friday dismissing the idea that the fundraising website was a cash-grab by the O'Connors or anyone else. Jones did not immediately respond to an email request for comment. Calls to the O'Connors seeking additional comments were not returned. The legislation at the center of the debate has since been revised. Under mounting national outrage and pressure from corporations that do business in Indiana, specifically the NCAA, Gov. Mike Pence signed an amendment to the bill that offers some protections from discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed a similarly revised measure on Thursday, after his state Legislature passed a bill that mirrored Indiana's. LAPD investigating homicide in Valley Glen Los Angeles police Wednesday were investigating a fatal shooting in the southeast San Fernando Valley. A man in his 20s was shot and killed about 8:10 p.m. in the 6400 block of Fulton Avenue in Valley Glen, police said. The suspect remained at large, and officers were setting up a perimeter, police said. No additional information was released. There has been one other homicide during the last 12 months within a one-mile radius of Wednesday's incident, according to the Homicide Report, The Times' online database. Lawyer's fee in CHP beating case sparks courtroom drama, divided loyalties The shocking video images captured on the side of the Santa Monica Freeway quickly went viral. It showed a California Highway Patrol officer repeatedly punching a black woman, Marlene Pinnock, seemingly with no provocation. As outrage grew, Pinnock's outspoken attorney Caree Harper was at the center of the story. She decried the officer's actions, demanded justice for her client and rallied community groups to Pinnock's defense. Harper ended up securing a settlement in which the officer resigned and the CHP gave her client $1.5 million. But that victory last year has given way to vitriol and bitterness. A federal judge overseeing the case has questioned whether Harper's $625,000 fee was excessive given the amount of legal work she did. The judge also raised questions about whether Pinnock, given her mental health history, was competent to agree to her deal with Harper without a conservator present. Judge Otis D. Wright III grilled Harper about the issue in early March and, when he concluded that she wasn't answering his questions, held her in contempt and sent her to jail for two days. Harper has defended her actions, saying that she has done nothing wrong and that the judge's questions were unfair. The dispute has divided the once-unified civil rights activists who had stood behind the attorney. "There are serious questions about how much of the more than $1 million in the agreed on settlement in the case has been used," Earl Ofari Hutchinson, president of the Los Angeles Urban Policy Roundtable, said in a statement. The tension between Wright and Harper grew in a series of hearings that started in February. The judge told Harper that he was concerned about Pinnock's mental state when he learned her portion of the settlement was going into a special trust overseen by a bank. "This is the first I've heard that Ms. Pinnock may have been incompetent," Wright said. "Otherwise, she would not need a special needs trust; she would manage her own funds." Harper and the state's lawyers returned to Wright's courtroom in March. This time, the judge pressed Harper about the first time she met Pinnock and prodded her about whether she thought Pinnock was mentally competent; his back and forth with the lawyer became increasingly tense. "I want you to describe your first encounter with Ms. Pinnock.... Under what circumstances did you meet Ms. Pinnock?" Wright asked Harper. "I'm not going to answer that question," Harper replied. "Pardon me?" the judge responded. "Without my counsel being here, answering questions that may or may not be attorney-client privilege items, I'm not in a position to answer that," Harper said. Wright ordered Harper taken into custody, with U.S. marshals handcuffing her. Wright said he wouldn't release her until she was ready to answer his questions. Two days later, Harper was back in the judge's courtroom. She answered the judge's questions and was ordered to provide proof that she paid Pinnock money her client was owed —at a fourth and final hearing March 17. When March 17 arrived, Harper didn't go to court, sending two other attorneys with the legal paperwork. Two of Harper's critics —Pinnock's daughter and son-in-law —were in the courtroom. So were many of the lawyer's supporters. A Facebook post urged people to attend the hearing and confront Wright about his dealings with Harper. Pinnock's daughter, Maisha Allums, told the judge that Harper had driven a wedge between her and her mother. But Pinnock's aunt defended the lawyer, saying that she had looked after Pinnock's best interests. Wright, who has been on the bench for nearly eight years, asked for people in the audience to stand if they had questions. Sha Dixon told Wright she wrote the Facebook page encouraging people to show up. "It says 'Come down to court and ask Judge Wright to stop abusing his power.' " Wright responded: "Got you. You want —what you want is for Judge Wright to stop trying to protect Marlene Pinnock, right?" Dixon elaborated, "So if you're trying to protect Ms. Pinnock's interest, you would actually be trying to speak up about the officer who beat her. That's actually protecting [her] interests." "No. Making sure that she isn't ripped off by her lawyer protects interests," the judge replied. The moment was an unusual interaction between a sitting judge and members of the audience in a courtroom —especially a federal one, said Stanley Goldman, a law professor at Loyola Law School, who added that he thought Wright's questions to Harper were legitimate. Goldman said a lawyer typically charges 33% to 40% of a civil award in a lawsuit when they are not paid up front as an incentive for taking clients who are not well off. Harper received $625,000 as part of the settlement but gave Pinnock $25,000 of that in cash so Harper's take was ultimately about 40%. But Goldman said an attorney's share of a settlement is related to their legal work in the case. The CHP beating case took less than three months to settle. In court, Harper said she didn't do any depositions, didn't do any discovery, or evidentiary work on the case, and saw the video on television "like many millions of others." She said her client is mentally capable when on medication. "A first-year lawyer would have been able to try and successfully win this case with a videotape, all right?" Wright told the attorney at one hearing. Harper and her supporters said she did more than just represent Pinnock in court. The attorney put Pinnock up in a new apartment, paid for new clothes, her food and her medication all out of pocket, said the woman's aunt, Brenda Hall Woods. Woods said Harper has been fair and earned her share of the settlement. "Judge Wright is ignorant to the difference between 'mental illness' and 'mental incompetence,' " Harper told The Times in an email. "I take cases that may take two months or two years —when I earn a low wage, what then? If Wright was really concerned about Ms. Pinnock, what took so long to chime in?" Seder reflects downtown L.A. Jewish center's growing significance Six years ago, Rabbi Moshe Greenwald decided to open a synagogue and Jewish community center at 7th and Broadway, in the heart of a rapidly changing downtown Los Angeles. The feedback wasn't entirely uplifting. Some were incredulous at the idea, he said, while others doubted anyone would attend. "They said we'd pack up after two years," Greenwald added. On Friday, the Jewish Community Center-Chabad of Downtown Los Angeles set places for nearly 240 people at its Seder, the multi-course meal that marks the start of Passover, which celebrates the deliverance of the Israelites from slavery in ancient Egypt. The turnout provided the latest evidence of the synagogue's growing significance to downtown's growing population. The dinner, held in a ballroom at the Alexandria Hotel, lured a cross-section of Angelenos from downtown and elsewhere: business owners, young professionals, residents of single-room hotels and a few who are homeless. "His Seders are huge, and his wife is amazing," said former City Councilwoman Jan Perry, who represented downtown for 12 years and is Jewish herself. "He's very inclusive. He's smart. This is an eclectic and diverse community and he recognizes that." Greenwald has been garnering praise for his talent with social media and his skill in drawing younger adults —those under 40 —to his shul. "This is the next generation that will be having kids and families and prolonging the Jewish tradition," said Matan Abel, a visual effects artist who signed up for Friday's Seder. Raised in Long Beach, Greenwald always had a fascination with downtown. He first ran the downtown synagogue out of his apartment at 6th and Hope streets, holding discussions of the Torah in his living room, before relocating in 2009 to a residential building on 7th. The synagogue and office are on the second floor, while he and his family live on the third. As the facility has grown, so has the Seder. In the early years, the event was "much more small and intimate," with about 50 people, Greenwald said. Last year the guest list reached 220. On Friday, the event took place under six glittering chandeliers and skylights of stained glass. The scene, and the growth of the community center, has delighted Patti Berman, president of the Downtown Los Angeles Neighborhood Council and a longtime resident. "As long as I lived in the area, I really felt there was something missing," she said. "They opened the Chabad and filled that empty spot." Greenwald said he hoped the Passover story would help those at the Seder recognize what might be holding them back —an unhappy relationship, a difficult work situation, a sense of insecurity —and then surmount those challenges. Those who attend, he said, should understand that "all of us experience a little bit of ancient Egypt in ourselves." Gov. Brown's drought plan goes easy on agriculture Gov. Jerry Brown's historic order to curb California's water use largely bypasses agriculture, the state's biggest water user, setting off debate about whether growers are getting a pass. The vast majority of Brown's plan focused on urban water use —such as lawns, golf courses, parks and public medians —which makes up less than 25% of Californians' overall water use. For critics of Brown's plan, it's ineffective policy to crack down on watering suburban yards while largely ignoring the vast, still-green expanses of the state's fruit and vegetable garden. "The government's response to this growing crisis has been behind the curve," said Jonas Minton, water policy advisor for the Planning and Conservation League and a former state water official. He argued that state officials should clamp down on groundwater pumping and plantings of thirsty new crops. Other water experts and growers say that agriculture has already suffered severe cutbacks as a result of the drawn-out drought, now in its fourth year. For the second year in a row, Central Valley farmers without senior water rights are expecting no deliveries from the valley's big federal irrigation project. Growers who get supplies from the State Water Project will receive only 20% of requested deliveries this year. Farmers left more than 400,000 acres unplanted last year, dealing a $2-billion blow to the state's agricultural economy. "I think much of California is all of a sudden waking up to the fact that the drought is not theoretical. It's going to manifest itself in ordinary Californians' lives for the first time. "Well, our farmers have been feeling it for a while," said Chris Scheuring, a water attorney for the California Farm Bureau Federation. Brown's seven-page executive order, issued Wednesday, outlined the first statewide mandatory water use restrictions in California's history. Among them: He ordered a 25% reduction in urban use statewide compared to 2013 levels. The directive also bans the use of drinking water to irrigate median strips in public roads, initiates the removal of 1,150 football fields worth of grass to be replaced with drought-tolerant plants; and orders golf courses, campuses and cemeteries to significantly cut their water consumption. Agricultural mandates were fewer and milder. Irrigation districts were directed to develop drought management plans that include supply and demand data. Agencies in basins where groundwater has been overpumped must immediately monitor groundwater levels. And the State Water Resources Control Board was told to crack down on illegal water diversions and "those engaging in the wasteful and unreasonable use of water." Jeffrey Mount, a senior fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California, said growers have been dealing with water cutbacks for years. As for regulating which crops growers plant, Mount said that could distort the market and have unintended economic consequences. "It's our view that government probably is not going to do a very good job of deciding what should and should not be grown." Moreover, Mount said that while the state could ban certain plantings under its constitutional powers to stop the unreasonable use of water in a drought, growing high-value crops such as almonds would not be considered unreasonable. The Legislature approved a statewide groundwater law last year intended to end decades of overpumping from aquifers in the Central Valley. But it won't take full effect for more than two decades, a timetable that critics say is far too generous. The rules are expected to limit withdrawals in some basins, forcing farmers who have increasingly relied on pumping groundwater to permanently retire cropland. Experts say change that significant requires time. "You do that overnight and there is extraordinary disruption," Mount said. "In some basins, this is going to be very painful, economically and socially, and you have to be careful about forcing that pain too quickly." Scheuring, noting that at least 40% of residential water use in the state is for landscaping, said that urban cuts don't have the same economic impact as slashing irrigation deliveries. "Folks are still going to brush their teeth," he said. "They're still going to run their dishwashers …flush their toilets. It's just that their lawn might be brown and they're going to have make some hard choices about landscaping. "That's a different thing from telling a farmer goodbye to 25% of what little [water] you may have. That has direct economic consequences." While farmers are moving to more efficient irrigation practices, they still practice wasteful flood irrigation on about 40% of irrigated acreage, said Heather Cooley of the Pacific Institute, an Oakland think tank. "We have a long way to go," she added. Phil Isenberg, vice chairman of the Delta Stewardship Council, said the sections of Brown's order demanding more water use data from agriculture are "a very dramatic change." Not only does the state lack information on all water diversions by farmers, groundwater pumping in the Central Valley has gone largely unmonitored for more than a century. "You gotta know who's using what," he said. "Should it do more?" he said of the order. "Yes, but the seriousness of seven pages of executive order with specifics is quite unusual." DRIVERS FOR L.A. COUNTY'S SHERIFF FOUND INSIDE ACCESS A MIXED BLESSING Joseph Fennell was at his desk at the Compton sheriff's station one night in February 2003 when a higher-up called: "I need your resume. Now." The 41-year-old sergeant frantically updated his work experience and sent it in. When he found out what the job was —driver for Sheriff Lee Baca —he was underwhelmed. "I just thought, 'What do you do, drive the sheriff around?'" he recalled recently. It was much more than that, he soon realized. For the next two years, Fennell crisscrossed Los Angeles County with Baca in the passenger seat, working a job that is little known to outsiders but carries such mystique that it remains a defining slice of the drivers' biographies even decades later. As the keeper of Baca's cellphone, Fennell told top brass to try again later if the boss was in a bad mood. He was there when colleagues bragged about themselves in hopes of a promotion. At public events, he scanned the room in case anyone tried to harm the sheriff. The hours were so punishing —5 a.m. to 11 p.m. on a typical day —that Fennell's wife quit her job as a registered nurse to care for their two children. In return, Fennell got an intimate view of the sheriff, from his penchant for El Pollo Loco to his concern for the homeless to the flaws that helped lead, years later, to his downfall. In an 18,000-person department troubled by cliques and favoritism, the job was never advertised. Instead, new drivers were tapped on the shoulder, usually because they had once crossed paths with someone influential. They were always men, often tall and strapping. They were considered Baca's chosen ones. As they progressed through the ranks, there were whispers that former drivers got more than they deserved because of their close association with the sheriff. The job symbolized the old way of doing things under Baca, who retired abruptly in January 2014 after a series of scandals that culminated in criminal charges against more than a dozen of his deputies. The new sheriff, Jim McDonnell, has pledged to stamp out any remnants of the boys' club and create a meritocracy. He began with the person who would be sitting next to him in the driver's seat. As Baca's first driver, Pat Maxwell wore out a Mercury Marquis in a year, logging more than 70,000 miles shuttling from patrol stations to government meetings to community events. While Baca was out for his morning run, Maxwell was catching up on the events of the previous night so he could prepare the sheriff for the day ahead. A daily 6 a.m. briefing was part of the driver's portfolio. In 1998, getting around the county's 4,000 square miles required flipping through a Thomas Guide, making for stressful moments when the place was hard to find. When Baca ran late, which was often, Maxwell would discreetly prod him by handing him a three-by-five notecard that sometimes read, "We need to go now." There were exciting moments, such as the time the pair happened upon an armed robbery suspect on the Santa Monica Freeway. Maxwell, who had spent much of his career as a street cop, let his boss slap on the handcuffs. There were the conversations about internal investigations, personnel moves and other topics that someone of Maxwell's rank wouldn't normally overhear. During all those hours in the car, Baca treated his driver as a sounding board, dispensing advice and asking for it. Then there was the boredom —the hours sitting in tedious staff meetings or waiting outside fancy dinners. Baca steered clear of coffee and rarely drank alcohol, other than an occasional sip of wine, former drivers said. "Everyone thinks it's a glamorous position," former driver Michael Claus said. "Glamour is not sitting in the car for three hours." Former drivers remember being ordered to pull over so Baca could talk to homeless people and give them money. Sometimes, the sheriff requested a detour to the houses where he grew up so he could reflect on his humble origins. He also was inclined to take people's statements at face value and refused to believe anyone had hidden intentions, former drivers said. That trait did not serve Baca well when he relied heavily on trusted aides as the county jails spiraled out of control. Membership in the exclusive club of sheriff's drivers had its perks but could also be a burden. Fennell, the department's first African American driver, said that after his driving stint, the sheriff treated him like a grandson, scolding him for mistakes while harboring deep affection for him. Bound by their experiences behind the wheel and the scrutiny that followed, as well as their loyalty to Baca, the former drivers gathered for a luncheon every year at The Palm steakhouse, with Baca as the guest of honor. Baca occasionally tapped former drivers for important jobs, as when Fennell and a predecessor, Jim Hellmold, landed two of the four spots on a task force to address violence in the jails. "People dismiss your hard work sometimes," said Fennell, now a commander in the countywide services division. "No matter what job I get, they always think it's because I was the sheriff's driver." At the LAPD, Daryl Gates was William H. Parker's driver in the 1950s before eventually becoming chief himself. In his memoir, Gates described Parker as a father figure, but one who sometimes drank so much that his young driver had to guide him up the steep hill to his house. Maxwell, now a commander in the South Patrol Division, said he sometimes wishes he had never been Baca's driver. "In a lot of ways, if I had to do it over again, I wouldn't have done it," Maxwell said. Hellmold, especially, rose quickly, skipping a rank to become an assistant sheriff at age 46. On his way out, Baca named Hellmold as one of two possible successors for the sheriff's job. Those triumphs came to haunt Hellmold, who ran for sheriff against McDonnell. The day after losing the primary election, Hellmold was demoted by Interim Sheriff John Scott, who stated publicly that Hellmold needed more seasoning. The next day, Scott transferred another former driver, Capt. Eli Vera, from the South Los Angeles station to the less prestigious reserves bureau. Vera said his transfer was a complete surprise. In an evaluation a few months before, he had received the highest rating of "outstanding" and was praised for his "vast knowledge and command of situations," he said. Hellmold said he had earned his position and had plenty of experience despite his rapid rise. "I worked early mornings for more than half my career. I was on the front line," he said. "Then for the sake of internal politics, people want to accuse you of promoting because you were a sheriff's driver for one year." As the end neared for Baca, one of his former drivers turned against him. Maxwell testified to a blue ribbon commission about the problems in the jails, which included repeated instances of deputies brutally assaulting inmates. A BALDWIN PARK GADFLY THE MAYOR WOULD LOVE TO SWAT AWAY Paul Cook stood just a few feet away from his adversary inside the small-claims courtroom in Alhambra. Baldwin Park Mayor Manuel Lozano towered over Cook, an attorney and activist —and, in the politician's view, an unrelenting critic with no sense of boundaries. The mayor stood silently, twiddling his thumbs behind his back, as Cook laid out his case. The mayor, Cook alleged, had filed a temporary restraining order against him last summer to thwart lawsuits and deprive him of his right to freely express himself. Not so, Lozano insisted. The mayor said he filed the order after he became concerned for his safety because of Cook's aggressiveness. "He has come to City Hall to expose my background, my addresses, my Social Security, including family and relatives' addresses," Lozano alleged, adding that Cook even wrote about his bankruptcy on his blog. "He literally knows every aspect of my personal life." Los Angeles County Superior Court Commissioner Bruce Mitchell turned to Cook for a response. "I have every right to publish that he's a bankrupted security guard on my blog," Cook said. "It's distasteful to some, but he's a public official and this shows how much disdain he has for the publication of free information." Guardedly respected, tolerated or quietly disliked by elected officials sitting behind the dais, local gadflies are part of the political landscape, from city halls to water districts. Like the Santa Ana winds, they show up faithfully and bring heat to often staid public meetings. Some dress in business attire; one activist in L.A. wears a dollhouse on his head. During one Metropolitan Transportation Authority meeting last year, a frequent speaker wore a shirt with a four-letter profanity printed on it in large capital letters. When he was asked to remove it, he started to take off all his clothes. For all the verbal fireworks they bring, however, the gadflies who haunt public meetings can also be vigilant, occasionally bringing a serious issue to light. Whether that was the case in Baldwin Park is a matter of dispute —at least between Cook and the mayor. The issue was brought before the court by Cook, who alleged that Lozano had filed the restraining order with one basic purpose: to shut him up. On this day, Mitchell, the commissioner, would allow the two men to make their last arguments before reaching a decision. The Baldwin Park case was unusual in that it was taking place in a small-claims courtroom, but similar conflicts have played out across the country, from Georgia to Los Angeles City Hall. The underlying question: Was this a case of an activist going too far in exercising his right to expression, or of a politician going too far to dampen it? Save for extreme instances of inappropriate behavior and speech —such as threats —the law generally sides with protecting speech, said Eugene Volokh, a UCLA law professor familiar with the Baldwin Park case. That would cover speech that is obnoxious, displeasing or even odious. "They're entitled to be aggressive in terms of asking tough questions," he said. "When it comes to ordinary citizens, it's easy to say, 'Stop trying to email me, stop talking to me,' but when someone is a government official, the bar for that is a lot higher." Government agencies have been at the center of controversies when elected officials have tried to limit people's comment time, saying that it would help maintain order during public meetings. Last year, the MTA board in Los Angeles revised its policy to restrict the time that a citizen is allowed to speak to about six minutes: three minutes during general public comment and up to three minutes on items on which the board will vote. Last February, two men who were often kicked out of L.A. City Council meetings for violating such rules won a free-speech lawsuit. A federal judge ruled that the city had repeatedly ran afoul of the 1st Amendment when it enforced its rules of decorum, cutting off or ejecting the activists from meetings dating as far back as 2009. Cook, 32, said he doesn't see himself as a gadfly, but as a concerned citizen whose activism was awakened by wrongs he believe public officials were committing. "I just have words, so writing and holding them accountable is all I can do," he said. The child of Korean immigrants, Cook said his father wanted him to become a lawyer or a doctor. After earning his undergraduate degree from UCLA in 2004, he moved to New Zealand to work and do some soul-searching. "You're either going to make a difference by healing people as a doctor or you're going to make changes that impact society as a lawyer," he recalled telling himself. He chose the latter. By 2009, Cook had returned to Los Angeles and attended UCLA's law school. He graduated in 2012. That year, he moved in with his parents in Baldwin Park to save money and study for the bar exam. He also joined a boxing club sponsored by the city. A year later, after he passed the exam, the conflict with Baldwin Park's government began. When the boxing club lost some of its funding, Cook said he started investigating its financial problems. He began submitting public records requests and attending council meetings to pressure officials to respond to his inquiries. Inspired by journalism, he also began documenting his fight on his blog, The Legal Lens. "The City Council and management treated me like an annoying 'gadfly' that buzzed in their ear," Cook said. "They saw me as a gadfly, but I was more of a hornet." He said that when the city failed to provide documents, he filed a pair of lawsuits to obtain them. The turning point came last summer, when Cook publicly criticized the director of the boxing program during a concert at a public park. The mayor claimed in court that Cook's statements were directed at him because he was addressing the crowd when Cook spoke out. Mitchell asked Cook to give his side of the park incident. "I said, 'Boo! Boo! You're a money launderer!'" Cook said. "Next thing I know, five police officers grabbed me and threw me out." He said the officers told him not to return. When he did, he was arrested and jailed. Lozano told the commissioner that Cook, after he was released from jail, went to a restaurant he frequents to confront him about the arrest. Cook said that he was at the restaurant to meet friends and that seeing the mayor had been coincidental. Four days later, on the advice of the city attorney, the mayor filed the restraining order against Cook. A Los Angeles County Superior Court judge denied Lozano's application on July 29 but warned Cook to keep his distance. Later that day, Cook sent an email to council members and the boxing director with a link to his blog story about his victory. The subject line read: "Eat it!" DOWNTOWN L.A. DRUGSTORE SELLS FOLK MEDICINE TO BRING LOVE, MONEY The sign above a store window at 3rd and Broadway downtown looks ordinary enough: "Rx Pharmacy." But it's the signs below that make many passersby do a double take. "We make amulets and candles," a small white sign in the corner reads, below another offering limpias, or spiritual cleansings. Under the word "Botanica," "Templo Santa Muerte" is stenciled in black letters. Rounding the corner toward the front of Farmacia Million Dollar, visitors are greeted by rows of statues, many of the folk saint. On the door, more signs advertise card readings: "English only Sunday appointment," one says. Inside, everyday drugstore items such as bath washes, bar soap, water and candles line the shelves. But the bath wash and soap are for protection and windfalls, and the water is colored and sealed with a paper label offering luck or safety. The velas —candles —along the back shelves aren't bought for their aroma; they're lighted in the hope of bringing users what they desire, whether love or success. What was once primarily a drugstore several years ago is now a refuge for people seeking solutions to everyday worries and problems —including the shop's owner as he confronts a rapidly gentrifying neighborhood. At the front counter, Lizeth Venegas prepares the candles with care. For the man buying the "Come to me" candle, she dusts it with powder and then tops it with some sprinkles. Once she's finished, she wraps it back up and hands it to him. For the woman at the counter, Venegas lines up four candles with a reventador label to help get rid of negativity in her life. "¿Todos en tu nombre?" she asks. "All in your name?" "Sí," the customer responds. "Ay mija, estás pesada," she tells her. "You're burdened." There are hundreds of botánicas in Southern California, serving as centers of diverse practices —spiritual, medicinal and therapeutic. They cater to a mainly Latino clientele, some of whom fear their religious family members will find out and disapprove that they're turning to these shops for help. "I think often the general default is that this is satanic, and for some in the Catholic Church this would be seen as false belief," says Patrick Polk, curator of Latin American and Caribbean Popular Arts at UCLA's Fowler Museum. "The reality is that it's very easy to judge other people's religions, and those judgments tend to be shaped by presumptions and stereotypes and misrepresentations." People will come into the shop and pray to Santa Muerte, because saints are believed to be conduits to the kingdom of heaven, Polk says. Santa Muerte is seen as the ultimate power, with death being something everyone will face, he adds. "Because she's so closely connected with everyday existential realities, she becomes someone people turn to as having a particularly unique power," Polk says. Some customers, mindful of accusations that botánicas are tied to witchcraft, tell friends they're out running errands or even hide among the aisles and wait for a store clerk to help them away from the front door. Others pay in cash so that the charge from the pharmacy won't show up on their credit card. "It's not witchcraft," Venegas says. "I think good and bad exists, and if you do bad things it's witchcraft.... Everything that's done for good is good." Typically, Venegas, 47, prepares at least 25 candles a day, scratching in the name and birth date of the person affected and advising customers on the prayer they need to say. Venegas has even prepared candles for the store's owner, Richard Blitz, for health, success and to turn things around at the botánica. Blitz will light the candles and place them in the racks near the Santa Muerte altar, adding them to the rows already flickering. One candle held a special petition from its user: "I would like good luck landing the role in 'She's Gotta Have It,' a TV show being developed by Spike Lee." "We all light candles. We know the probability is not very successful, but it can work," Blitz says. "You always hope for the long shot. Everybody does." But hope isn't enough to bring in customers. Blitz says he's seen a 25% to 30% drop in business over the last year alone, a drop he blames on a changing downtown. As the years have passed, Blitz said, he's seen Latino businesses disappear as the number of Latinos who shop in the area slowly dwindles. Blitz's lease is up next year, and he'll have to find a new location for his shop. Blitz believes a liquor store will take the space that's been occupied for decades by the botánica. "Gentrification is killing us," Blitz says, glancing out the window. "I want to go where people like us. Downtown they don't like us." The redeveloped area is a far cry from the 1970s and '80s, when the Broadway corridor —between 2nd Street and Olympic —was anchored by an immigrant population that created its own thriving shopping district in abandoned movie theaters and office buildings. Eric Avila, a professor of history, Chicano studies and urban planning at UCLA, has lived downtown for 10 years. He has taken note of some of the changes along Broadway, including at Grand Central Market, a minute's walk from the pharmacy. Years ago, the market's focus was on the Latino immigrant population that shopped downtown. With an influx of wealthier —and generally whiter —people, it's starting to change. "The botánica is part of a larger experience that's happening to a lot of these kind of small mom-and-pop stores that are losing business," Avila says. Martha Cruz sits in one of the metal folding chairs in the back of the shop, waiting for her sister to finish a card reading. For three years the East L.A. resident has been coming to see one of the botánica's card readers, Lupita Petersen, after Petersen helped her increase business at her beauty salon. Petersen told Cruz that someone was trying to run her out of her business and advised her to buy candles and bath washes to help her get the salon back on track. Now it is doing well, and Cruz has brought her two sisters to visit Petersen. "It gave me confidence," says Cruz, 36. "She gives you confidence." At the readings, in a small back room with cards lining the side wall, Petersen has her customers silently think about various things while holding the cards and shuffling them. Afterward, the person cuts the deck into three and Petersen takes it from there —divining what's happening, or will happen, in his life. Petersen, originally from Mexico, has worked in the shop for 10 years. Over that time, she has cultivated regular clients who sometimes wait hours to see her. IRAQ'S RAMBO IS THE SCOURGE OF ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS The men push forward, smartphones flying back and forth as they enlist whoever is closest to take their photo with the swarthy figure at the front of the crowd. When it's the next man's turn, he approaches with reverence, planting a kiss on the cheek or forehead of the muscle-bound man with the shaved head and jet-black bushy beard. An awkward pose, a quick snap, and it's on to the next acolyte, already in place. Who is worthy of such attention? A movie star? A chart-topping singer? Nope. He's Iraq's most famous Shiite militiaman, a fierce warrior whose nom de guerre —Abu Azrael —is an archangel of death in Islam. But the 37-year-old has another nickname: the "Iraqi Rambo." He is the scourge of Islamic State militants, who last year rampaged across large parts of Iraq and Syria. He taunts and mocks the Sunni extremists on social media, saying he has dispatched them in droves with an arsenal that would satisfy any video-game aficionado: a scoped rifle, hand grenades and, when things get dicey, an ax or sword. His Facebook pages have garnered well over 300,000 "likes," and his YouTube videos rack up hundreds of thousands —and occasionally millions —of views. (His presence at a recent funeral for a high-ranking militia leader almost derailed the somber proceedings.) Convalescing in Baghdad after a battlefield injury sustained during the government's latest offensive on the city of Tikrit —"a shell blast threw me off the armored carrier I was on," he explains as he nonchalantly gestures to the cast on his right arm —Abu Azrael consents to a sit-down interview. It's a tightly choreographed affair, monitored by a media team from his militia, the Imam Ali Brigades, that would make any Hollywood PR firm proud. "When the Iraqi people came under attack, I decided to leave my work and become a warrior to defend them," he begins, describing himself as a "simple man who wanted to fight the evil of Daesh," the Arabic acronym for Islamic State. And though those on the receiving end of his lethal blows (not to mention taunts) are Sunnis, he rejects accusations that he's encouraging sectarianism. Like your average action hero, his identity is shrouded in mystery. He acknowledges little more than being a "gentle father" to four daughters and a son. And what does he do when he's not fighting Islamic State? Is he, as some believe, a university lecturer in Islamic studies, or a fitness instructor who once won a taekwondo tournament, or, as he claims, a simple state employee who moonlights as a muezzin at his local mosque? And what about his real name? Is it Ayyoub Faleh al-Rubaie or Ayyoub al-Zerjawi, only two of the names he has given to the press? Abu Azrael won't say, and with his menacing stare (not to mention the serrated military knife at his side), one doesn't like to be pushy. The secrecy, we're informed, is to protect the fighter and his family from the many threats leveled against him by furious Islamic State supporters, who post gruesome videos of pro-government militiamen killed in battles with the taunting hashtag #Where_Are_You_Abu_Azrael? He won't confirm news reports that he began fighting in 2003 as part of the Mahdi Army, the militia of the Shiite cleric Muqtada Sadr, which fought against U.S. troops during the Iraq war. Neither will he admit fighting in Syria alongside forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar Assad. He does, however, say that he first took the name Abu Azrael in 2003 because the angel of death meets "an evil person with brutality, and I wanted to meet those terrorists in that way." The Iraqi government and Shiite militias have long battled a Sunni insurgency that has appeared under different guises (including Al Qaeda in Iraq and the Islamic State in Iraq, the precursor to Islamic State). Whatever the name, pro-government media routinely describe the militants as "terrorists." Abu Azrael, however, has different words for his enemies: "illa tahin," an abbreviated religious quote that literally translates to "nothing but flour" but means "you will be pulverized." It has become the catchphrase he deploys whenever faced by Islamic State and its supporters. Abu Azrael decided to join the Imam Ali Brigades, he says, because of the group's "wise and religious leadership" and because he admired its integration of other sects into its ranks, such as anti-militant Sunni tribesmen and Yazidis. "Other groups were at first reluctant to do so," he says. "Now they have come to follow our way of thinking." The government has trumpeted the participation of Sunni tribal fighters in its recent offensive on Salahuddin province as a response to concern about a sectarian bloodbath by the Shiite-dominated armed forces. Last year, Iraq's top Shiite cleric exhorted followers to join militias and prop up the country's armed forces, which had collapsed after a humiliating defeat at the hands of Islamic State. Although the militias were credited with saving Baghdad from being overrun by the militant group, many feared a return of the Shiite death squads who engaged in reprisals against Sunnis during the sectarian bloodletting in 2006-07. Back then, Shiites had a different hero: Abu Deraa, a Shiite paramilitary leader. Abu Deraa's raids on Sunni neighborhoods and his penchant for drilling holes in the heads of Sunni captives earned him the moniker "the Shiite Zarqawi," a reference to the Jordanian-born Sunni head of Al Qaeda in Iraq responsible for organizing vicious suicide bombings against Shiites. Abu Azrael insists that he shuns sectarianism and that he and his comrades in the militias are holy warriors fighting to defend the oppressed against those who "kill and pillage in the name of Muslims." "I'm here to talk about terrorism. Any person who embraces Daesh, no matter what his religion may be, I will consider him a terrorist." Aside from his boasts about his fighting prowess, Abu Azrael is known for his gallows-inflected sense of humor. In his best-known video, released in January, he's seen riding on a children's bicycle through a Sunni-dominated area presumably once packed with Islamic State militants and supporters, now rendered a ghost town. "What a romantic setting! This is your brother Abu Azrael roaming around the city of the dead," he says, flashing a toothy grin as the camera pans over the carcass of a dog. "If we weren't good-hearted people, we would have burned your houses down to the ground," he goads the town's absent residents-turned-refugees, adding that only houses with Islamic State flags were razed. Abu Azrael explains that the video was shot in a Sunni area called Albu Hishmeh about 45 miles north of Baghdad, the site of intense clashes between Imam Ali Brigade and Islamic State fighters in December and January. Lovers in the twilight time If you think you have all the time in the world to love, by all means bring home roses once a year. Jerri Kane and Raymond Sternberg lack that luxury. They celebrate their happiness each month. Last April 8th was the day they moved in together. In the outside world, their boxy bedroom and small bathroom would be called a studio apartment. In Eisenberg Village at the Los Angeles Jewish Home in Reseda, it's room 224. Jerri points to the number and says two plus two plus four adds up to their lucky number: 8. She's 88, by the way. The guy she's shacked up with? He's 93. Who needs to tie the knot? They know what they have, and what they've lost. Jerri and Ray lived long lives before they met each other. She wed three times, he just once —a marriage that lasted 71 years. Alzheimer's ripped away the lovely girl who was just 19 when she married him, in terrible slow motion, day by day, thought by thought. When Ray speaks of Shirley, who died last January, his voice quivers and his eyes well with tears. But if first love is special, so is last love. Jerri and Ray are giddy with it. They smooch in public. They wiggle their eyebrows at each other. Risque lines crackle between them. One day he's wearing a bandage on his arm. She bats her eyelashes and says, "He told me to be gentle. I forgot." He puckers up. She grips him close with her pink fingernails. "My gentle giant," she coos. To be with them is to be three's a crowd. How did it start? Picture a crowded dining room —the sort you might find on an ocean liner or in a grand hotel. Only here it's a white-haired crowd, with many more women than men. People sit at assigned tables, sipping from cans of low-sodium V8. Jerri had been at Table 33 for years by the time Ray showed up at Table 35. Gingerly, in their sensible shoes, they began to cross the wide aisle between them, back and forth, back and forth. He saw a blond beauty, always coiffed and well dressed. She saw a looker too: tall, dark and handsome. She also noticed he had clean fingernails, which pleased her. One day, Ray asked Jerri if she'd like to be companions and she said yes. "I think we fell in like, and from falling in like, it grew to love. And at our age that's simply spectacular," Jerri says. Ray says his son Donald helped open his heart again. Speaking of it, he tears up. Well into his mother's mental diminishment, Donald sat Ray down for a talk, the way a father might a son. He assured his father that he had honored his marriage vows. He said it was time for him to take care of himself. He also asked Ray to fulfill one last parental duty: to "teach me … how to live the end of your life." For Donald it has been a beautiful, bittersweet lesson. "I used to see my dad all the time, but I don't see him all that much anymore," the 63-year-old says. "He has this whole other life now. It makes him happy, and he's consumed with it." In their little room, Jerri and Ray have side-by-side recliners. She curls up in hers with romance novels. He likes to read suspense. When her arthritis doesn't interfere, she crochets while watching TV. He puts on his headphones and listens to big bands. They laugh a lot. They don't have much wall space. They share as best they can. Jerri took all her individual photos out of their frames and turned them into one big collage of her life. Here she is as a bare-kneed child, here as a freshly bloomed young woman. Here is her daughter, Eileen, who looks just like her, except that her hair is long and dark. Above his chair, Ray has a large photo of his three children —Donald, Lauren and Judith —as well as a black-and-white of himself as a young man in the Army, and his World War II medals (a Purple Heart and a Silver Star) in a frame, behind glass. Photos of Shirley stay in his closet, he says. It's easier that way. What he and Jerri share is in the moment and simple, he says —free of concerns about earning a living, about raising a family, about anything, really, beyond making each other happy. When they moved in together, they pushed two twin beds into one bed. They spend a lot of time in that bed. He used to wear his hair close-cropped. She had him grow it out, wavy and lush. Ray still drives a car. He takes it for a spin several times a week to play cards at a nearby senior center. Jerri does her own thing too. She leads tours of the home. At dinner they maintain their separate tables for a bit of independence, though before going to his, he pushes in her chair for her. And on the 8th of every month, they ditch the dining hall for an off-campus early bird special. This month it was at IHOP, where they got the two by two by two —pairs of everything, pancakes to eggs. At the Jewish Home, they don't celebrate saints. So Valentine's Day is Sweethearts' Day. For Jerri and Ray, it's the same as every other day. They wake up to the sound of the rooster in the nursery next door. They look out at the sun in the trees. They kiss and they laugh and they celebrate every moment they get to spend together. Finding Marlowe: Did this man inspire two of noir's iconic fictional detectives? It was hot and I was late for lunch. I was feeling mean, like I'd been left out in the sun too long. We were meeting at a joint on La Brea, the kind of place where the booths have curtains you can pull shut if you need a little privacy. I slid across cool leather and got my first good look at Louise Ransil, a wisp of a redhead with high cheekbones and appraising eyes. She sat with her hands folded on the worn table, a stack of old paperbacks next to her. Ransil had a script she'd been peddling to the studios. I'd started reading it —a detective caper set in 1930s Los Angeles —and wanted to find out about the claim on the title page. "BASED ON A TRUE STORY: From case files of P.I. Samuel B. Marlowe." Ransil didn't waste any time. Marlowe, she said, was the city's first licensed black private detective. He shadowed lives, took care of secrets, knew his way around Tinseltown. Ransil dropped the names of some Hollywood heavies —Clark Gable, Jean Harlow, Howard Hughes. But it got better. Marlowe knew hard-boiled writers Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett, she said. The private eye had written them after reading their early stories in the pulp magazine Black Mask to say their fictional gumshoes were doing it all wrong. They began writing regularly, or so her story went. The authors relied on Marlowe for writing advice, and in the case of Chandler, some real-life detective work. So his name was Samuel Marlowe … and their most famous characters were Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe. That was no accident, she was sure of it. Maybe, maybe not. At the very least, it was a hell of a coincidence. But the letters that would prove it all had gone missing —if they even existed. Marlowe's relatives were searching for them. There was talk of a secret compartment in a home in West Adams. Or maybe they were hidden at a shuttered thrift shop in South Los Angeles. Ransil flashed a wry smile. Was I interested? Lost letters worth thousands. A family trying to uncover the truth about a man all mixed up in the glamour and the seediness of L.A. between the wars. And a Hollywood screenwriter who stood to gain a lot from any story I might write. This was L.A. noir. I didn't know if I could trust Ransil, a former executive with Orion Pictures and New Line Cinema who lived alone in a penthouse with a pet parrot. But she had gotten to me. Chandler and Hammett created two characters that shaped the archetype of the noir detective as a world-weary white man, and she was saying they might have been named after a black private eye. I started checking out Ransil's story, looking up the paid obituaries in The Times and the Los Angeles Sentinel from when Marlowe died in 1991. Marlowe was born Aug. 3, 1890, in Montego Bay, Jamaica. According to The Times obituary, he served in Britain's Egyptian Expeditionary Force, a World War I fighting brigade that guarded the Suez Canal. After the war, Marlowe immigrated to the U.S., settling in Los Angeles, where he soon became a private detective. Both obituaries made the same bold —and almost certainly untrue —claim: "In L.A., he was the first licensed P.I. west of the Mississippi." The notices were larded up with the private eye's civic achievements, even referencing a few organizations —like the Old Black Screen Actor's Guild, from his days as a bit actor —that I couldn't verify ever existed. I needed to turn to Marlowe's family members. And to Ransil. She said that after reading the obituaries, she reached out to the gumshoe's son, Samuel Marlowe Jr., who gave her access to his father's archives. Over the course of several months in 1991 and 1992, Ransil said, she examined the PI's papers at the younger Marlowe's home —rifling through old case files, invoices and correspondence —and took notes in Stenoscript shorthand. She showed me dozens of pages of them. Ransil said she didn't photocopy anything because it would have amounted to hours of work and she figured there'd be plenty of time to examine it all. She eventually set aside the project, distracted by her day jobs. By the time she picked it up again in 2006, Marlowe Jr. was dead. Ransil, 61, acknowledged that doubters could say she's playing fast and loose with the truth to score a movie deal. She's adamant that her motives are pure. At least Ransil wasn't the only person who claimed to have seen the letters. Willie Rawls, 74, a Marlowe family friend, said she examined them around 2001 just before they went missing. And one of Marlowe's great-grandsons, Antoine Durousseau, said he saw them too. "A lot of them were handwritten —letters between Marlowe and the authors," he said. "Marlowe kept a pretty good file cabinet." I followed a lead to a big man drenched in sweat. He was picking through battered steamer trunks and moldy cardboard boxes. John Cummings was searching for the lost letters —or anything else that could prove the man he knew as a boy was a trusted advisor to two literary lions. "He had a gold-capped tooth right here," Cummings said of his great-grandfather, pointing at one of his own front teeth, "and was addicted to cigars, horses and women." As the sun beat down on a dilapidated South L.A. building, Cummings, 48, took a break. He wasn't satisfied with the objects he'd unearthed at the property, once a thrift shop operated by his late father, who had retrieved some of Marlowe's personal effects when the private eye died. For Cummings, it's personal. He wants to prove what a 1980s story in the Sentinel asserted: When Marlowe became a PI in 1921, he was the "first black man to have a licensed detective agency in the state of California." "I am more interested in Sr.'s legacy, and the legacy of African American men who have blazed a trail and gone unrecognized," said Cummings, speaking in a cigar-ravaged rasp. The California Department of Consumer Affairs, which issues private detective licenses, has no record of Marlowe, but an agency spokesman said that older files are often incomplete or missing. USC history department researcher Angelica Stoddard, whose work centers on L.A.'s first licensed black private eyes, says Marlowe is the earliest one she's heard of. Cummings ducked into a rusty white Ford Econoline van parked out back and emerged with a heavy cardboard box. He set it on the ground and plunged his hand in, pulling out a pistol, bullets, stale cigars. There was an address book with an entry for Universal Studios' payroll department and a placard that read, "This property is protected by the Samuel B. Marlowe Detective Agency." I started re-reading Chandler's and Hammett's novels, gulping down their stories of crooks and femmes fatales, dizzy with all that hard language coursing through my head. Hammett's debut novel, "Red Harvest," was published in 1929 —the same year Marlowe wrote the author to complain about his writing, Ransil said. The following year, Hammett released "The Maltese Falcon," with its iconic, white private detective, Sam Spade. Marlowe claimed that Spade's first name was an homage to him, and that the character's surname was Hammett's "winking inside joke," because "spade" was a derogatory term for a black person, Marlowe Jr. told Ransil. In 1933, Hammett published "Nightshade," a little-known, four-page tale that appeared in Mystery League magazine and is his only work to feature a black protagonist. In the story, the lead character, Jack Bye, helps a blond out of a jam with two toughs. Afterward, they visit an African American speak-easy called Mack's. Once she leaves, the barman tells Bye: "I like you, boy, but you got to remember it don't make no difference how light your skin is or how many colleges you went to, you're still a n—." Ransil said that Marlowe's cache of letters from Hammett included a carbon copy of a draft of "Nightshade" with an index card clipped to it suggesting the story was inspired by the private eye: "I came across this and thought you might like to have it. You'll see I changed a few of the details, but I think it still works." Marlowe, family members say, provided security for illegal speak-easies during the Prohibition era, when Hollywood types liked to frequent the Dunbar Hotel and other nightspots on South L.A.'s Central Avenue —long the center of African American life in Los Angeles. Great-grandson Durousseau said that he'd been told by older relatives that film studios also paid the gumshoe to "pick up actors and actresses who were in the wrong part of town at speak-easies and juke joints." The work on Central Avenue, and a walk-on part in the 1933 epic "King Kong," introduced Marlowe to a slew of movie industry players. Among those who relied on Marlowe were Howard Hughes and Charlie Chaplin —both of whom used him to keep tabs on women they were seeing, Ransil said. In 1936, Paramount Pictures hired Marlowe to investigate an attempt to blackmail actress Marlene Dietrich, Ransil's notes show. Marlowe went to a train station to stake out the delivery of $8,000 in hush money provided by the studio to a "young man." He turned out to be the son of Dietrich's makeup artist. "Dietrich refused to have the makeup woman and son arrested because she and the makeup woman had been lovers," Ransil's notes show. The detective also started doing a little work for Chandler after the author wrote the PI asking if he could retrieve some police files, Ransil said. Marlowe's billing files, she said, show that he was also Chandler's guide on research expeditions to the "tough parts of town." Marlowe gave Chandler a bit of advice on how to think like a PI: "Believe no one, even the person hiring you —especially the person hiring you," according to Ransil's notes. In 1939, Chandler released "The Big Sleep," his first Philip Marlowe novel. It turned the writer into a literary star. Chandler followed up "The Big Sleep" a year later with "Farewell, My Lovely," considered by some to be his greatest work. Ransil believes that the South L.A. vignette that opens the book depicts a side of the city that Chandler would have been unfamiliar with unless he had a guide like Marlowe. The novel opens on Chandler's Philip Marlowe emerging from a barbershop on Central Avenue. He watches the felon Moose Malloy throw a black man out of a bar called Florian's. Later, Malloy and Marlowe come across an African American bouncer at Florian's who says, "No white folks, brother. Jes' fo' the colored people. I'se sorry." "Where did he get that? Why Central Avenue?" asked Judith Freeman, author of the biography "The Long Embrace: Raymond Chandler and the Woman He Loved." The research institutions that house the two writers' papers said none mention Marlowe. And scholars have plenty of other ideas about where the characters' names might have come from. Freeman said the connection would be plausible —"if one could find even the smallest direct link." I thundered down the 110 toward Compton, my coupe shuddering over the highway's tar-smeared seams. I was hoping for an audience with Marlowe's oldest living relative —his nephew. Samuel Joseph Marlowe lives in a pink, wood-sided house with a security gate at the front door. It was a Sunday, and down the block a church was flooded with parishioners who spilled out onto a porch. I parked across the street, where two steely-eyed men sitting in a late-model sedan clocked me as I hustled up the driveway. My visit was unannounced; I'd had a mind to doorstep Samuel Joseph, who didn't answer my letters or have a working phone. Inside I found a withered man lolling deep in a stained couch, as comfortable as an old shoe. His speech had been muddied by a recent stroke, but Samuel Joseph, 88, was eager to talk. He spoke of his journey from Jamaica to Los Angeles in 1947 and how his uncle got him a job at a cold storage facility. Marlowe was willing to lend a helping hand, but when Samuel Joseph needed help filing his taxes, the flinty PI charged him $10. "When he finished my income tax I went by the house and he said, 'Your paperwork is finished,' so I reached up to get it," Samuel Joseph said. "He said, 'You can pay me $10 first.' I picked it up anyway. He pulled out his little pistol and said, 'No, you put it back until I get my money.' He was joking, but he was meaning it too. He didn't pity no man." Samuel Joseph smiled at the story but told me that he didn't know about Marlowe's connection to the writers. He said in a bashful sort of way that I knew more about his uncle than he did. "Oh, what should I say about Uncle Sam?" he trailed off, squinting at something unseen. I had hit another dead end. Marlowe kept things close to the vest, even with his relatives. But as he grew older, he hinted at his glory years, back when he called himself the "Answer Man." Durousseau remembers watching television with Marlowe years after he'd retired. The old man's eyes lighted up when the film adaptation of "The Maltese Falcon" came on the screen. Watching Humphrey Bogart hunt down the jewel-encrusted falcon statuette, the elderly former detective gestured at the television and said "he knew that guy from the movie," Durousseau recalled. The private eye died two weeks before his 101st birthday. He's buried at the Inglewood Park Cemetery. I visited with Durousseau and watched as he cleaned the grave marker in row 1190 of the cemetery's Resthaven section, sluicing it with water from a fast-food restaurant cup. "He outlived his family members, he'd seen Los Angeles [transform] from nothing to everything," said Durousseau, 44, stifling tears. "He just felt he was ready to go." After the detective died, some of his possessions were transferred to his son's house in West Adams. The old Dutch Colonial became the focus of a family legal battle when Marlowe Jr. died in 2003, and that may have led to the loss of the private eye's files. After three years of legal skirmishing, the house was put on the market —and the feuding heirs never retrieved the files from it. When buyer Ethan Polk toured the property before making an offer, it was filled with the belongings of the late PI and his son. As part of the transaction, Polk stipulated that it be cleaned out. "The real estate agent hired a crew of people to clean out the house," Polk said. "They basically dumped everything." It had been a year of hard work but even harder luck when I met Ransil for lunch again, this time at an Italian place on Hillhurst Avenue. She appeared more frail than I'd remembered. As I walked in, the faint sound of an army of air conditioners registering their protests set me on edge. We were in the middle of a ferocious heat wave and AC units had been surrendering all across the city. Ransil ordered a tuna melt with fried potatoes and picked at the food. I barely gave her time to eat. I peppered her with questions, asking again why she hadn't photocopied Marlowe's files. I told her about the real estate agent's crew, and what they'd done. I needed a good night's sleep, I needed a change of scenery, and I needed a break in the case. It didn't look like any were coming. Ransil slumped back into the green leather booth. She said she felt ashamed that she'd let the story slip through her fingers. "It's a long and twisted tale that didn't turn out the way I'd hoped," she said. "I'm kicking myself in a lot of ways." There was another lead to pursue, and I wasn't some soft-boned flatheel who'd give up without a fight. The Dutch Colonial once owned by Marlowe's son is a husk, shedding roof shingles and sloughing off its white clapboard exterior. But it could hold the private detective's secrets. Word is, the house contains at least one hidden compartment where the younger Marlowe had stashed valuables. Ransil said that the private eye's daughter, Rena Hughes, once told her about this. A former resident, Stacie Ottley, recalled one in a bedroom too. "There's a room that had a little thing in the floor," Ottley said. "One of the floorboards moved." Could the letters still be there? I asked Polk, the current owner, if he'd mind if I tore up a room. He gave me a look and, laughing a little, agreed. I called up my handyman, a street-smart Cincinnatian named Dan Boster who keeps his salt-and-pepper hair short. I asked for a favor. A week later, the two of us stooped in one of the house's closets. Boster yanked up musty carpet. He rapped his fingers on the hardwood floor. A hollow thump. Sweating now, he leaned in and edged a steel scraper between two boards. The wood gave way. Cool air rose from below. I swallowed and looked down. Nothing. I'd spent a year chasing dead men. They weren't talking. Maybe they never would. But I just got another tip. I'm in too deep to quit now. She shot her husband, served her time, then things got tough A woman with blond hair sat at a computer, her blue eyes scanning the comments on the Homicide Report about the killing of Charles "Chip" Burns. Some came from people who had never met him but had an opinion about the simple entry, posted in August 2010. It described how Chip, who turned 46 on that day, had gotten into an altercation with his wife, Shannon Burns. At some point, investigators said, the 41-year-old armed herself with a gun. Authorities believe that Chip was shot and killed while trying to take the weapon away. The woman at the computer tensed as she read some of the comments. Other comments came from people who knew the couple, who met in an Alcoholics Anonymous group in 2003. On Halloween of that year, they had their first date at Olive Garden. Later that night, their bodies close, they swayed to Creed's "With Arms Wide Open" at a support group dance. The more the woman read, the more she wanted to speak out. She wasn't just a reader. She was Chip's wife. Shannon had an abusive past, and when she met Chip, she said, she felt like she had finally found someone who treated her with respect. Although some commenters sided with her, Shannon felt angry. I already have to live with this day by day, she thought. She wanted to defend Chip —and herself. She began typing. Over seven years, nearly 30,000 comments have been published from readers on the Homicide Report, which chronicles people who have been killed in Los Angeles County. The blog, which has documented more than 5,300 homicides, also provides a forum for victims to be remembered and for people to speak out about violence in their communities. The comments are often far more personal than those normally seen on newspaper websites, more poignant, raw, angry. Sometimes, friends of the victims talk to the dead in a kind of an online eulogy, and other times, they provide perspective into the person's life. The stories on the Homicide Report don't always have a sympathetic narrative. Some of the victims are gang members, others have been in and out of jail, or have a history of drug use. But their choices don't diminish the pain for the people who knew them. That day —Thursday, Aug. 12, 2010 —was the first time Shannon had had a drink in nearly eight years. She had lost her job, lost her mobile home and had moved to a small house in a rough Lancaster neighborhood. Chip had gotten out of prison about three weeks earlier, and this is what he had come home to. Now, they were being evicted. Chip suggested that the two have a drink and ease their worries. At first, Shannon said, she protested, but was soon convinced. Shannon had butterflies on the way to the liquor store. The guilt crept up as the two bought beer. "I thought I would be OK," Shannon recalled recently in an interview at her parents' Palmdale home, where she married Chip on New Year's Eve of 2005. "I thought I could handle it after 7 1/2 years." The drinks went down quickly. The two bought more alcohol. They spent the afternoon at Lake Elizabeth, talking. Shannon told Chip she didn't want to live anymore. At some point during the afternoon, the two smoked crack cocaine. The couple arrived back at the house around 3 p.m. Shannon's daughter, Bree, and her boyfriend were in a bedroom. Bree immediately noticed something was wrong. She threatened to call her grandmother about her mother's relapse. "How could you do this to me?" she asked her mother, according to witness statements. By this time, Shannon was walking around the house with a gun in her waistband, according to witness statements. Then she walked into her bedroom and sat on the bed. The gun, a 9-millimeter Ruger, contained a full magazine. Bree and Chip were in the living room. Bree, then 20, was getting nervous. She told Chip she didn't want her mother to hurt herself. Chip walked into the bedroom. Bree heard Chip tell Shannon to give him the gun. A single gunshot rang out. Shannon remembers seeing Chip fall to the ground, then performing CPR. Drops of blood stained the leg of her blue jean overalls. "Chip, Chip, wake up," Shannon cried. She was arrested that day. In jail, she remembers, she asked a guard if she could call Chip. Twelve hours later, she found out he was dead. On Nov. 16, 2010, Shannon Burns pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter. She was sentenced to 176 days in jail, but was released Dec. 7, 2010, with credit for time served. At first, she drank to ease the pain, but soon found that alcohol only magnified her misery. "It brings up too much," she said. She's been sober for nine months, she said, but she doesn't go to group meetings anymore. She said she used to be a "happy-go-lucky" person who was highly involved in her recovery. She was on committees and sponsored other women. Now, she said, she has enough "noise in her head." There are triggers all around. The song "Don't Speak" by No Doubt sometimes brings tears to her eyes. She has nightmares and wakes up shaking. The home videos of him are off-limits; she can't bring herself to watch them. She's estranged from Chip's son, but wonders how he's doing. Every month, she sees a psychiatrist. Support from her mother, father and her friends has been crucial to her well-being. In 2012, she bumped into an old friend at a motorcycle show with her parents. They've been dating for two years. One day, she sat Tommy down and explained everything that had to do with Chip. It's hard for Tommy to understand, but he listens when she needs to talk. She still keeps a photo of Chip in her wallet. She's afraid that if she stops thinking about him, it'll be like their love never happened. Her daughter was married in October. Shannon wishes Chip could have seen it. "It would have been a perfect life had there been no drugs or alcohol involved," she said. For Zoey Tur, a new life as transgender woman takes flight At 700 feet above Los Angeles, Zoey Tur realized she'd never flown a chopper in heels. "One thing I quickly discovered as a female pilot," she said. "Ditch the heels!" The airborne reporter and pilot bent down, pulled off her pumps and threw them in the back seat. "I mean, really? Seriously?" she said, hovering above the city, one pantyhose-clad foot on the anti-torque pedal, one manicured hand on the cyclic control. As benign as the helicopter flight appeared, it was perhaps one of Tur's riskiest assignments in a television news career that's included flying through war zones, deadly storms and gunfire. The recent "Inside Edition" segment was one of her first as Zoey, not Robert, Tur —the first openly transgender reporter on a nationally syndicated news show. The Emmy-winning 54-year-old is no stranger to breaking stories from the skies above Los Angeles. In the early hours of the 1992 riots, Tur was hovering over the intersection of Florence and Normandie and captured the beating of truck driver Reginald Denny. Two years later Tur was the first to spot O.J. Simpson fleeing in the now-infamous white Bronco. In three decades as "Chopper Bob," Tur airlifted dozens of people to safety during deadly weather and man-made calamities. "It was about as macho as it gets," she said. Now a strawberry blond with noticeably softer features, Tur is gradually making her way back into the news business after two years of hormone therapy and a sex reassignment surgery last June. Today, Tur is far less flashy than the swaggering and chiseled Chopper Bob. "You expected me to be way over the top in person, didn't you?" she asked with a nudge. "C'mon, admit it. Bigger hair, brighter colors maybe?" Tur's breakthrough role as a freelance correspondent for "Inside Edition" comes at a time when transgender personalities are making significant headway in mainstream media. It's no coincidence she was brought on board in February during sweeps season. TV series such as "Orange Is the New Black," "Glee" and "Transparent" feature transgender story lines and characters that are humanizing rather than exploitative. Former Olympian Bruce Jenner was in talks to document his transition from male to female for a proposed reality TV series. Major news outlets now report regularly on the challenges faced by the transgender community, whether it's the high rate of suicide in the community or daily issues involving public changing areas in gyms. As expected, Tur's high-profile position has drawn mixed reactions: She's heralded as a breakthrough by some, derided as an abomination by others. She's reported on her own learning curve as a woman, as well as on stories about America's changing ideas about gender, such as a recent interview with a transgender San Quentin State Prison correctional officer. Likewise, she's both a pioneer and a lightning rod in the LGBT community. Her mere presence on prime time is a testament to the growing acceptance of a historically maligned demographic, yet Tur's contrarian viewpoints on various issues have raised hackles in the transgender community and among advocates who say she's off message. She's challenged the very definition of "transgender" and argued that despite what the experts say, hormone therapy can cause one's sexual orientation to flip. (She says she's now attracted to men, after a lifetime of the opposite.) She also recently sided with female patrons at a Michigan gym who felt uncomfortable sharing the changing room with a transgender woman. "When I was going through transition, I didn't push it on everyone," Tur said, referring to the gym controversy. "I didn't want to harm the transgender community or harm females in their private space. I was respectful. But now I've been told [by LGBT advocacy groups] to sit down, shut up and listen." Dana Beyer, executive director of Gender Rights Maryland, feels Tur isn't qualified to be a spokeswoman for the community. "Like many other trans people, she may have thought: 'Oh, I transitioned. Now I can pontificate about any question someone throws me.' My answer is 'No, you cannot.' She's pretending to be an expert but misinforming the public. It's dangerous." Mark Angelo Cummings, founder and host of Transition Radio, disagrees. He's concerned that certain advocacy groups are too aggressive in trying to silence those who don't stick to one unified message. "I've been advocating since 2003, and I don't like what I'm seeing now," said Cummings, who recently interviewed Tur on his show. "No one speaks for every trans person. They're the most complex group of individuals I've ever met. Put 10 transgender individuals in one room, and we'll all disagree. But let their voices be heard." The slim, 5-foot-10 Tur, an L.A. native, blended in with the weekday beach crowd as she made her way down the boardwalk near her Santa Monica home. Her hair was pulled back in a no-fuss ponytail, her gait casual in a pair of sensible yet sparkly flats. Tur says assimilation was her goal, but then her gender transition went public. "Did I want to be laughed at?" Tur said. "Known as a man in a dress? A clown? No, but I had no choice. TMZ's Harvey Levin called me in 2013 and said, 'We're going to do this story [on your transition]. Will you cooperate?'" Tur agreed to speak with Levin if he promised to treat her story with respect. "An hour and half later, I did a Skype interview [with Levin]," she said. "I looked drained. I felt like I was confessing to a crime after all those years on the run. Twenty-eight million people now knew." Over dinner, Tur wanted to arm wrestle. She moved the water and wine glasses to the edge of the table and pushed back the sleeve of her track jacket. Her point: to show that it's unfair for transgender women athletes to compete against other women on sports teams (another opinion that's put Tur at odds with some in the trans community). She gripped the hand of her female dining companion, the chipped light pink polish on her nails an indication that primping is just not her thing. As the wrestling began, she teased. "I'm bored." And boom. She defeated her opponent without even really trying. "The gold standard for many transgender [people] is passing," she said later over dinner. "If you can pass, you have an easier life." She took a sip of wine. "I pass maybe 70% of the time," she said. "When I don't and they look at me funny, I say, 'Choose one.'" Tur grew up in 1960s Brentwood with a father who worked in the garment business and "a wonderful" mother who was a freelance journalist. Already experiencing mixed feelings about gender, Tur saw in her a natural role model. Tur eventually bought a chopper and formed a news service with his wife, also a journalist. They helped refine the idea of journalism from the skies, breaking major L.A. stories throughout the '80s and '90s. But work eventually slowed down, and the couple split some years ago. Tur claims to have dated many women, including "Star Wars" actress Carrie Fisher. AT PEPPERDINE'S SURF CHAPEL, PRAYERS COME IN WAVES On such a gray, nippy morning, most self-respecting college students would pull the covers over their heads and languish for a couple of extra hours in the sack. But Asa Miller drove 30 miles from Simi Valley to greet the dawn at Zuma Beach. After spending six years in the Navy, Miller sometimes feels at sea as a 24-year-old freshman at Pepperdine University in Malibu. That's why he heads to Surf Chapel, a weekly convocation on the sand, to help him get his bearings —by combining a little bit of God and a little bit of wave action. "Surf Chapel is a chance to refocus the soul and mind," Miller said. "Being by the beach in the morning gives me perspective, reminding me of my place." The Gospels of Matthew, Mark and John all tell of the miracle of Jesus walking on the Sea of Galilee. Nowhere do they mention surfing. But that matters not to dozens of students from the Christian university as they sit on the beach about 10 miles west of campus, nestled in navy Pepperdine hoodies and wrapped in beach towels to ward off the morning chill. First they listen to Bible passages and break up into small groups to share emotional highs and lows. Then many of them don wetsuits, grab boards from a Pepperdine recreation department truck and hit the waves. One might say they give new meaning to the phrase "pray for surf." Surf Chapel is spearheaded by Rob Shearer, an assistant professor who teaches undergraduate students the decidedly secular topics of business statistics and quantitative decision-making. Each Wednesday morning, he carries his surfboard and his New American Standard Bible and wades into the sacred realm of the outdoors, where he expounds the merits of religious belief and community building. His own faith was built on the move at a succession of mostly nondenominational churches. Shearer, 47, was born in Atlanta to a military father. The family relocated often, worshiping as Lutherans or Baptists, Shearer said, "whatever the chaplain was." He graduated from West Point and served 22 years in the Army, including six months in Baghdad as a lieutenant colonel during the military surge in 2008. He spent his final military years in Monterey, where he took to the frigid water to lend moral support to his son, Will, a novice surfer stoked by the sport. The father, too, was soon hooked. After retiring from the military in 2012, Shearer began teaching at Pepperdine, where a 125-foot tower with a carved-out cross is one of the most visible landmarks from Pacific Coast Highway. Each week, he and Pepperdine alum Grant Waggoner invited about 10 students, all hardcore surfers, to the beach. "We really wanted to build a community," Shearer said. "We both thought college students struggle with 'Where do I fit in?' We wanted to be a community where we love God, love each other and love surfing —hopefully, in that order." The second year, word spread; 40 people showed up to the first gathering of that 2013 fall semester. Waggoner moved, and Shearer decided to cast a wider net by advertising throughout campus. He also got the university to designate each weekly Surf Chapel as an official convocation. (Students are required to attend 14 convocations each semester.) The university provides funds to pay for beach permits and to hire a lifeguard. Shearer noted with a smile: "We are the only convocation where you have to sign a release form." Surf Chapel now has an average attendance of 80 or so, with the number swelling to more than 100 on warm, sunny days. "Surf Chapel really responds to today's college students, who do not have the edifice complex … that my generation had," Pepperdine President Andrew K. Benton said. "We needed stucco and tile or brick and mortar to find places to worship." One recent Wednesday, students started showing up about 7 a.m., parking their cars along PCH and strolling to an otherwise deserted stretch of broad, white sandy beach. About 7:30, Shearer strode into their midst, wearing khaki shorts, a long-sleeve T-shirt and a blue Pepperdine cap. He toted a teal-and-ivory-striped surfboard that he promptly began waxing as he greeted the students. "Waking up is hard," acknowledged Jayelle Minor, 18, a first-year student who grew up in Los Angeles. "But I love coming here. Some of my favorite people are here. Everybody gets up for it." Standing in front of the group, Ray McLagan sang as he strummed his guitar: "Let us become more aware of your presence." With a gusty ocean breeze ruffling the sand and a skein of squawking pelicans skimming the water behind him, Shearer read from John 14: "Do not let your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me.... Thomas said to Him, 'Lord, we do not know where you are going; how do we know the way?' Jesus said to him, 'I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father but through me.' " After the reading, Shearer told students: "You'll find a lot of time in your life you won't know the way. He's giving directions. All you have to do is follow." Joseph Ramli, 19, a sophomore, grew up in San Diego and loved the beach but had never surfed until he came to Surf Chapel. "I actually learned to surf here, halfway through my freshman year," Ramli said. "Everyone's really encouraging. You don't feel inferior. We all laugh and talk in the water while waiting for waves." Ramli was a co-leader of a small group and asked each person in turn to relate the high and low points of the week and to name the Pop-Tarts flavor he or she would like to try. Alexis Carrington, 21, a senior majoring in biology, was attending her first Surf Chapel and told the six members in her small group: "This is the high of my week." Her low? "Realizing I have only two more months [at Pepperdine]." As for the Pop-Tarts flavor? "If they had a cookies and creme...." (She's in luck.) Minor's high was spending spring break with friends on an island off Seattle. The low was forgetting to read a book for a paper that was due Friday. Members of the group held hands as Ramli said a prayer —for the family of a 21-year-old woman who had been killed the day before by a car on PCH; for good grades and smooth sailing in classes; and, yes, for good waves. Then a dozen or so hearty wetsuit-wearing worshipers headed into the waves. Even though the surf was small, most of the gremmies repeatedly wiped out. Surfers occasionally came close to colliding. Shearer spilled a few times but popped back up, smiling. Just past 9:30 a.m., the surfers began heading back to the sand one by one. Class and homework beckoned, and for some, maybe a nap. Miller, the 24-year-old freshman, emerged from the water looking proud after his first surfing experience and pleased to have begun the morning away from what he termed "the normal hustle and bustle of life." Jason Antonio Galvez, 19 Jason Antonio Galvez, a 19-year-old Latino, was shot and killed Monday, March 23, near the intersection of South Inglewood Avenue and West 104th Street in Lennox, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records. Shortly before 2:30 p.m., Galvez was riding a bicycle in the area when a gunman got out of a vehicle and confronted him, said L.A. County Sheriff's Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez. The gunman fired several times, striking Galvez, then ran back to the car where a driver was waiting. Galvez was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 3:05 p.m., said Ed Winter, assistant chief of investigations for the coroner's office. Anyone with information is asked to call the Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau at (323) 890-5500. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-8477. Many witnessed a shooting, but no one has come forward On Monday night, LAPD Det. Young Mun watched a common scene unfold outside a dry cleaning shop off East Florence Avenue in South L.A. As the sun set, a mother slid out of an SUV and walked toward a waiting crowd. Blue and white candles, some lighted, flickered on the sidewalk below a banner bearing the face of her 19-year-old son. "Nobody wants to talk, and everybody is on mute," J. LaKiesha Marshall told the crowd. "This is all senseless, you all. We need to stop this." Marshall's son, Justin Logie, was gunned down about 2 a.m. on March 20 only a few feet from where she stood. Police said that at least 100 people were gathered nearby for an event when Logie was shot. By the time police arrived, no one had stuck around to talk. A local television station interviewed a man who said that the shooting was over a woman, but so far, investigators have not been able to corroborate that account. So on Monday, Marshall and dozens of others gathered at the shooting site not only to mourn, but also to ask for witnesses to come forward. "Speak about what happened to her son," Bishop K. Donnell Smith, a local activist, implored the crowd through a megaphone. Mun also urged people to speak up. "Without those voices to say what happened," he said, "we will never solve this case." Though each homicide case is different, there is a common and historical theme for detectives like Mun working in South L.A.: reluctant witnesses. It's for a variety of reasons, including distrust of police and not wanting to be seen as a snitch. Self-preservation sometimes trumps any willingness to come forward. A recent article in the Homicide Report profiled a family waiting for a break in the case of Brandon Shorts —who was shot in a busy intersection and died in 2010. In May, Lemuel Andres Goode was at a party in Chesterfield Square with at least a dozen people when he was shot. He died 12 days later. Police believe the gunman was part of the group that was there. Eventually, cases like Goode's are put together piece by piece. "It's about detectives working on the witnesses," said LAPD Det. Chris Barling, who supervises homicide investigations in the LAPD's 77th Division, where Shorts, Goode and Logie were killed. Justin Logie, described by his mother as a "gentle giant," dreamed of one day opening a barber shop. A cousin described him as a generous, family-oriented man who doted on his 5-year-old brother. "He would give his shirt off his back just to keep the next person warm," Bianka Logie said. At the gathering, a pastor asked mothers who had lost a loved one to violence to come forward. One by one, women embraced Marshall. Some spoke about being tired of seeing candles on the streets and hearing the same narrative of the "homies" being tough but scrambling when something goes wrong. Justin Logie's grandmother, Janisa Spears, spoke to the younger men and women who attended. "Every one of you is Justin," she said. "I know the hopelessness and worthlessness that you feel. I never want you to end up like Justin." Spears runs a nonprofit called Seeking Peaceful Solutions, which offers support services in anger management and domestic violence and also works for the Center for Grief and Loss for Children at Hathaway-Sycamores. Though Spears works with those who have lost loved ones, she says the loss of her grandson has made her numb. "The trauma is in my home," she said Tuesday. Toward the end of the vigil, a cousin sang while Marshall cried. At times, her sobs turned into moans. "Baby, you will never be forgotten."  Anyone with information is asked to call LAPD's Criminal Gang Homicide Division at (213) 485-4341. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-8477.  Oxnard man sentenced in fatal shooting of nightclub valet An Oxnard man was sentenced this month to 114 years to life in state prison for fatally shooting a valet worker in the chest at a Pico Rivera nightclub, according to the Los Angeles County district attorney's office. A jury on Jan. 23 found Sebastian Zazueta, a 22-year-old Latino, guilty of killing Melvin Ernesto Cortez-Ortega, 37. Zazueta was also found guilty of four counts of attempted murder, according to prosecutors.  On Sept. 22, 2013, Zazueta and his friends went to watch a performance at El Rodeo nightclub when they got into an argument with security guards and were kicked out, prosecutors said. Cortez-Ortega was working as a valet shortly after 2:30 a.m. when Zazueta tried to get back into the club to use the restroom. The security guard refused to let Zazueta into the club and he returned with a gun and shot at the employees. Cortez-Ortega was struck by gunfire and died several hours later at a hospital.  The security guard was also shot but survived. Cortez-Ortega worked two jobs and was rarely home on weekdays. His wife, Marielba Orozco, previously told The Times that Cortez-Ortega was attentive to her son from a previous relationship and was a great husband. "He did whatever he could to keep us happy," she said in 2013. "If I wanted something, he'd get it for me. Even something as small as an ice cream cone."  Woman asked police for help moments before fatal Hawthorne shooting A 44-year-old black woman was fatally shot in front of her 12-year-old son Wednesday afternoon, according to authorities. Denise Berry stopped her car shortly after 12:30 p.m. near West Rosecrans Avenue and Kornblum Avenue in Hawthorne to tell a police officer that someone was following her gray Mercedes, said Lt. Dave Coleman with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. The officer told Berry to pull in front of him and park. After Berry got back into her car, a Cadillac pulled up and a person inside got out and began firing at Berry and her 12-year-old son, who was in the passenger seat. Coleman said the gunman opened fire "right smack" in front of the officer. The Hawthorne police officer fired at the gunman, striking him. The gunman, later identified as Robert Washington, a 38-year-old black man, and Berry, were pronounced dead at the scene. The boy, who was struck in the upper body, was taken to a hospital and is in stable condition. On Thursday afternoon, Coleman said detectives are trying to piece together why Washington opened fire on Berry. Shortly before the shooting, Coleman said that Berry and her son saw the Cadillac with a person's feet hanging out the window. He said that the woman and her son made note of the car and chuckled.  "There were no gang signs, none of that," Coleman said. Deputies arrested two people in Washington's car: Stanley White, a 24-year-old black man, and Brandon White, a 19-year-old black man. Authorities recovered two loaded weapons at the scene, Coleman said. Homeless man not guilty in 2014 slaying at Hollywood McDonald's A jury on Friday found a 36-year-old homeless man not guilty in the beating death of a Good Samaritan after a confrontation at a Hollywood McDonald's restaurant. Authorities said Jeremy Harris was yelling and cursing at a 3-year-old boy in the restaurant on June 18, 2014, when Gabriel Ortega Jr., 57, who was out for a birthday dinner, stepped between the two and told him to stop. Harris then punched Ortega in the face and fled before police arrived, according to court testimony. After filing a battery report, Ortega refused medical treatment, but days later, as symptoms worsened, a friend took him to the hospital. He fell into a coma and died July 14. The L.A. County coroner ruled the death a homicide. Harris was arrested July 31 and charged with one count of voluntary manslaughter. On Friday, a judge did not allow the jury to consider a lesser offense of involuntary manslaughter. The trial began March 30 at the L.A. County courthouse in Alhambra. The boy's grandmother, Kathiern Rodriguez, testified that they had seen Harris walk in and begin talking loudly to himself. She said she and the boy's mother, Heidy Garcia, began packing up to leave because he was making them uncomfortable. When Harris came over to their table and began screaming at the child, Garcia first stood in front of her child to try to shield him, then Ortega stepped in, according to Rodriguez's and Garcia's testimony. He said, "'You're not going to hit that baby. What do you think you're doing? … You have no business talking like that to a baby,'" Rodriguez said. Garcia and Rodriguez didn't find out that Ortega had died until an officer told them he'd seen it on the news. Garcia, who choked up on the stand before identifying a picture of Ortega, called him her "hero." "I just feel like God just sent me an angel and saved our lives. Because if it wasn't for him, I don't know what would have happened," Garcia said. Both women testified that Harris spat in Ortega's face, at least once deliberately, which was when they said the argument escalated, and Harris punched Ortega in the face. It's not clear how many times Ortega was struck. When police responded that night, Rodriguez and Ortega gave statements and said Harris had punched Ortega once. But in court, Rodriguez and Garcia said Harris punched Ortega multiple times, and in a 911 call played for the jury, Rodriguez told operators that Harris was "beating him up." Guillermo Arevalo-Farias, Harris' public defender, said during the trial that Harris was not the man who struck Ortega. Both the mother and the grandmother of the child identified Harris in a photo lineup but expressed some uncertainty about certain physical features. Kathy Pezdek, a psychology professor at Claremont Graduate University, testified that several factors can lead to misidentification, such as time of exposure to the suspect, time delay in seeing the suspect and describing the suspect, and the bias of an in-court identification. "There's no dispute that whoever did this is a bad guy," Arevalo-Farias said in closing arguments. "That's not in dispute. The dispute is whether or not they got it right." He also brought attention to a tumor that was identified during Ortega's autopsy that had started in his liver and metastasized to his brain, offering the possibility that Ortega's hemorrhage was unrelated to the attack. In closing arguments Friday, Deputy Dist. Atty. Tricia Taylor wrote "Don't get involved" and "Stay out of it" on an easel pad in front of the jury, then turned to them. "How many times have you heard that advice?" she asked. Ortega "stepped up when no one else would." Taylor argued that the stress of the moment could have caused certain details about Harris' appearance to be fuzzy. She added that although Ortega had a tumor, the length of his life was shortened by the assault. When the verdict was announced, Arevalo-Farias gave Harris a pat on the back. Moments later, Harris made the sign of the cross. Arevalo-Farias said he was satisfied with the outcome. "As the ID expert said, misidentification is the source of a lot of wrongful convictions," he said. "I'm just glad that the outcome in this case wasn't a wrongful conviction based on misidentification." Sandra Ramirez, Ortega's friend who took him to the hospital, said it was no surprise to her when Ortega told her about the June 18 incident. "It was simply the kind of guy he was," Ramirez said. "He was very concerned about people and wanted to see that they got help if they needed it." She met Ortega at a dog park three years ago. He was living out of his car at the time and took care of her dogs while she was at work. "He used to be a really bad guy," Ramirez said. "Then he cleaned up his act and was really excited about doing good." He told Ramirez that he was a former gang member and spent his time mentoring gang-involved youth and volunteering at church. Last Easter, Ramirez remembered, Ortega arrived at a shelter to help distribute meals, but no one was there. "He called me up frantic and said, 'Can I use your kitchen? I'm going to use the rest of my food stamps to buy some food,'" Ramirez said. That night, the two of them prepared and delivered 30 meals to families in need, she said. Ramirez said she's "not vindictive" toward Harris. "Nothing is going to bring [Ortega] back," she said. "So if this guy can get some help, maybe he can turn around and do what Gabriel did. People can change." California Screamin' roller coaster gets stuck at Disney California Adventure There was plenty of screams – for help, not joy – at Disney California Adventure on Friday afternoon when four trains on the California Screamin' ride became stuck, some on the ride's peak. "Currently stuck at the top of California Screamin," one passenger tweeted. Former Seattle Mariners pitcher Jamie Moyer was among the passengers. He posted a photo of himself and said, "Not sure what is more difficult, pitching in a Major League game or this." The ride "experienced a minor mechanical issue," about 2 p.m., so four trains holding about 100 passengers on the ride stopped, said park spokeswoman Suzie Brown. "We were going pretty good, going up the tallest hill and were about to go over and it just kind of stopped, the music was still playing," said Maci Hensley, 15, who was in the rear seat of one of the trains. "I'm actually afraid of heights, and I'm a little claustrophobic, and it was just scary." It took crews five to 30 minutes to walk passengers off the ride. No one was hurt. "Once I got on the ground I was like 'Yes! I love you so much ground!'" Hensley said. She said she and her friends and family drove to the park from Las Vegas. The ride was up and running again before 3:45 p.m., Brown said. Guests who were stuck on the ride received a priority admission to any attraction, she added. This isn't the first time a ride has malfunctioned at Disneyland lately. In October, the Ferris wheel jammed for about two hours in 90-degree heat. A Times analysis of California theme park injuries shows that of 2,089 injury reports filed in 2007 through 2012 with the state Department of Industrial Relations, California Screamin' generated the third-highest number of reports among Southern California attractions, with 76 reports that included nausea, seizures, fainting and shoulder pain. 4:37 p.m.: This story has been updated with an interview with someone stuck on the roller coaster and information on the history of theme park injuries. 3:31 p.m.: This story has been updated with comment from a Disneyland spokeswoman. 'Revenge porn' website operator sentenced to 18 years A 28-year-old San Diego man was sentenced Friday to 18 years in custody after being convicted of operating a "revenge porn" website that included naked and sexually explicit pictures of women posted by angry ex-boyfriends or ex-husbands. Kevin Christopher Bollaert, a Web developer, posted the pictures and then charged women from $300 to $350 to have the pictures removed. He was convicted in February of multiple felony counts of identity theft and extortion. Bollaert was ordered to pay $15,000 in restitution to his victims and a $10,000 fine. Bollaert will be allowed to serve the sentence in a county jail rather than state prison under the judge's ruling. Eight women told Superior Court Judge David Gill how they were victimized by having the pictures appear on the website. One woman said she received 400 messages on social media after the pictures were shown. She said she was forced to quit college and seek help in a mental hospital. "It's been so traumatic," she said. "It's a daily struggle to get my life together." Bollaert did not speak before sentencing, but his parents told Gill that their son was remorseful. "Sitting behind a computer, committing what is essentially a cowardly and criminal act, will not shield predators from the law or jail," said state Atty. Gen. Kamala Harris, whose office handled the prosecution. The state's revenge porn law, a misdemeanor, became effective Oct. 1, 2013, after the conduct for which Bollaert was charged. Prosecutors said that Bollaert created a website that allowed the anonymous posting of nude and sexually explicit photos. The website required that a person posting a picture to include the subject's name, location, age and Facebook profile. Prosecutors said more than 10,000 images from California and other states were posted between Dec. 2, 2012, and Sept. 17, 2013. Court documents include emails to Bollaert's website from women demanding that pictures of them be removed. In the emails, the women say that posting of the pictures left them angry, scared and feeling violated. One woman emailed that after the pictures were posted along with her name and other personal information, she received phone calls, lewd photos and numerous emails from people "asking to 'hook up.'" Man dies of self-inflicted gunshot wound at Universal Studios A man died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound Friday afternoon near the Despicable Me Minion Mayhem ride at Universal Studios, authorities said. The shooting occurred at 2:15 p.m. and is considered a possible suicide, said Nicole Nishida, spokeswoman for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. She said investigators would speak to any witnesses and check surveillance footage. Firefighters arrived at the park at 2:29 p.m. after receiving a report of a medical emergency, said Inspector Randall Wright of the Los Angeles County Fire Department. Sheriff's Sgt. Enrique Mandugan said homicide investigators have been summoned to the scene. Friday night, authorities said the man's ex-girlfriend, who works at the park, notified security when she saw him there.  "We know he and his girlfriend have been estranged since February," sheriff's homicide Lt. Eddie Hernandez said. "She had a restraining order against him, and today she saw him outside the restaurant and she alerted security." Security and a sheriff's deputy tracked the man to an area near the ride, Hernandez said.  "The man then pulled out a gun from the small of his back or his back pocket" and shot himself, Hernandez said.  The deputy tried to persuade the man to not shoot himself, Hernandez said.  Park security searches the belongings of guests, but they don't usually use metal detector wands, which is how the man was able to bring the gun into the park, Hernandez said. A Universal Studios spokeswoman said the park is still open, and corporate security is working with law enforcement to investigate. Kenyan survivor found hiding 2 days after university massacre A survivor of the killings at Garissa University College was found Saturday, two days after the attack by Islamic extremists killed 148 people. Cynthia Charotich, 19, told The Associated Press from her hospital gurney that she hid in a large cupboard and covered herself with clothes, refusing to emerge even when some of her classmates came out of hiding at the demands of the gunmen from the Shabab group. She was rescued shortly before 10 a.m., according to Kenyan officials. Charotich said she didn't believe that rescuers urging her to come out of her hiding place were there to help, suspecting at first that they were militants. "How do I know that you are the Kenyan police?" she said she asked them. "I was just praying to my God," Charotich, a Christian, said of her ordeal. Only when Kenyan security forces had one of her teachers appeal to her did she come out, she said. Charotich appeared tired and thirsty, sipping on yoghurt and a soft drink, but otherwise seemed in good health. She said she drank a lotion because she was so thirsty and hungry while in hiding. Rev. Robert H. Schuller, who built Crystal Cathedral, dies at 88 When the Rev. Robert H. Schuller started his Orange County ministry in 1955, he took out ads proclaiming a new way for the faithful to attend church: "Come as you are, in the family car!" At a drive-in movie theater off the Santa Ana Freeway on a Sunday morning in March, Schuller strode upon the snack bar's tar-paper roof, microphone in hand. His wife, Arvella, played an organ that the couple towed on a trailer behind their station wagon. Worshipers in a few dozen cars listened on drive-in speakers clamped to their windows as the amiable young preacher urged upon them a divinely inspired optimism. "But Jesus beheld them," he intoned, "and said unto them, 'With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.'" The collection that week totaled $83.75 —an inauspicious start for one of America's most successful evangelists, an apostle of marketing who used to call his church "a shopping center for Jesus Christ." Schuller, who built the Crystal Cathedral in Garden Grove as the embodiment of an upbeat, modern vision of Christianity, only to see his ministry shattered by family discord and financial ruin, died Thursday at a care facility in Artesia. He was 88 and had esophageal cancer. After a working life of great success and influence, Schuller was forced to watch from retirement as much of what he built was laid to waste. In October 2010, his church, then led by his daughter Sheila Schuller Coleman, declared bankruptcy. That led to the sale of the cathedral and surrounding property to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orange in February 2012. Changing tastes, financial overreach and squabbling over a successor were factors in the collapse. Schuller had turned over his pulpit first to his son, Robert A. Schuller, and then to Coleman. In March 2010, he and his wife formally cut ties to the ministry they had founded, bemoaning the "negative and adversarial atmosphere" enveloping the church's leadership. It was an ignominious end to what had been one of the greatest success stories of postwar American Christianity. The silver-haired evangelist rose from humble beginnings to become one of the late 20th century's most recognized religious figures. He created the weekly "Hour of Power" television show that at its peak popularity attracted an international audience of millions, wrote dozens of books with titles such as "Turning Hurts Into Halos" and "If It's Going to Be, It's Up to Me," and built a 40-acre church campus with buildings so striking that the American Institute of Architects gave him its first lifetime achievement award in 2001. Schuller's popularity rested in his avuncular public manner, tireless energy and unique approach to Christianity that blended pop psychology, unbridled optimism and the Gospel. Offering an alternative to the fire-and-brimstone preacher, Schuller taught that believing in Jesus Christ —along with the power of "possibility thinking" —provided the keys to leading a successful and fulfilling life. Schuller's ability to think big —and his knack for satisfying congregants' spiritual hunger in practical ways —led to the creation of one of the world's first seeker-sensitive megachurches, drawing 10,000 people to its membership rolls and attracting worldwide television audiences of an estimated 30 million for its Sunday services. "Find a need and fill it, find a hurt and heal it" was the church's mission. A generation of megachurch pastors was influenced by Schuller's approach, including bestselling authors Rick Warren of Saddleback Church in Lake Forest and Bill Hybels of Willow Creek Community Church near Chicago. Although those pastors and others attracted new generations of churchgoers, Schuller's audience mostly aged with him. "Robert Schuller was one of the original pioneers of the megachurch movement," said Donald E. Miller, executive director of the Center for Religion and Civic Culture at USC. "However, his message of positive thinking became frozen in time —appealing to an aging audience of adults but never really connected to the post-boomer generation." One of Schuller's legacies is the Crystal Cathedral —since renamed Christ Cathedral —a Philip Johnson-designed structure made of steel and 10,000 panes of glass. Using the pastor's desire for an open-air worship space as inspiration, Johnson created a building where congregants could feel connected to God by gazing out the 12-story-high glass walls and ceiling to view the sky, clouds, trees and birds. Completed in 1980, it cost $20 million to build. "The Crystal Cathedral is not an attempt to be an architectural ego-statement," Schuller said in a 1997 interview with the American Academy of Achievement. "It's probably the ultimate spiritual and psychological statement that could be made in architectural terms." Until money problems surfaced at the Crystal Cathedral, Schuller had steered clear of the scandals that led to the downfall of other televangelists. But he did receive a steady stream of criticism from some Christians —including those within his denomination —for his downplaying of sin, tying popular psychology too closely to the Gospel and constructing a series of world-class buildings with millions of dollars that could have been spent on the poor. The church's bankruptcy filing ultimately revealed a pattern of lavish spending, including generous salaries and benefits for Schuller family members on the church staff. With the congregation aging and donations dwindling, Schuller's ministry could not be sustained. Born near Alton, Iowa, on Sept. 16, 1926, Schuller was the fifth child of Dutch immigrant parents who lived in a farmhouse without electricity or plumbing. Schuller said he first knew he wanted to be a pastor at age 4 after his missionary uncle returned from China and predicted that was his destiny. Each evening for the next 20 years, Schuller said, he prayed to God to become a pastor. In addition, many days "I would stand in my solitude on the hills by the river, preaching to an imaginary congregation, imitating the sounds and gestures of a seasoned preacher," Schuller wrote. Nonathletic and overweight as a child, Schuller gained confidence by singing in a high school quartet that won the Iowa state championships. In college, he competed in a tournament in California, a state whose geography wowed him. He vowed to return someday. A graduate of Hope College in Holland, Mich., Schuller fell in love with an 18-year-old church organist, Arvella DeHann, while attending nearby Western Theology Seminary. During a three-week period in 1950, he graduated from the seminary, married and was ordained by the Reformed Church in America, a Protestant denomination with roots in the Calvinist Reformation of the 1500s. "Miraculously, lives in our tiny congregation began to transform," Schuller wrote in his biography. "The congregation began to grow.... I realized that every sermon I preached should be designed not to 'teach' or 'convert' people, but rather to encourage them, to give them a lift. I decided to adopt the spirit, style, strategy and substance of a 'therapist' in the pulpit." Sally Forrest, dancer lifted to dramatic roles by Ida Lupino, dies at 86 Sally Forrest, a dancer who appeared in 1940s MGM musicals before being cast by Ida Lupino in dramatic roles, died March 15 at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 86. She had long battled cancer, said publicist Judith Goffin. Forrest, whom columnist Hedda Hopper once called "a typical example of overlooked talent in Hollywood," had been released from her studio contract when Lupino chose her for the lead in an independent film she was coproducing, "Not Wanted" (1949). The role of an anguished, unwed mother went against type for Forrest, often described as "perky" or "pert" in newspaper accounts. But she clearly valued the experience of doing the film that Lupino also directed after the initial director fell ill. "She was the best I ever worked with," Forrest said of the pioneering female filmmaker in the Los Angeles Times in 2002. "She was completely understanding and knew exactly what she wanted." Lupino cast Forrest in two more films: "Never Fear" (1949) and "Hard Fast and Beautiful" (1951). Forrest went on to appear in noir films such as "While the City Sleeps" (1956), directed by Fritz Lang. She was born Katherine Feeney on May 28, 1928, in San Diego, and started taking dancing lessons at 5. Moving to Los Angeles in the mid-1940s, she appeared as a showgirl in the MGM musical "Till the Clouds Roll By" (1946) and had other uncredited roles until her dramatic turn in "Not Wanted." She appeared in early television anthology series of the early 1950s and had roles in episodes of "The Millionaire," "Rawhide" and "Family Affair." On Broadway in the 1950s, Forrest starred in the hit comedy "The Seven Year Itch" in the lead female role played by Marilyn Monroe in the film version. She also toured in shows, but was essentially retired in 1984 when she was asked to be in a production of the tap-dancing musical "No, No Nanette" in her hometown of San Diego. In all her years of dance, however, she had not done tap. "Ballet, Spanish and modern dancing I know," she told the San Diego Union-Tribune. But ever the hoofer, she went through with it. "They helped me along with some lessons, and here I am." Forrest's husband, agent Milo Frank, died in 2004. She had no immediate survivors. Walter Grauman dies at 93; 'Murder, She Wrote,' 'Columbo' TV director Walter Grauman, a prolific television director whose credits include numerous episodes of hits such as "Murder, She Wrote," "Barnaby Jones," "The Fugitive" and "The Untouchables," died March 20 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93. He had been battling heart and vascular problems and died of natural causes, said his wife, Peggy Grauman. Although Grauman was one of the busiest television directors in the 1950s through the mid-1990s, he had no background in theater or movies when he got into the business during the live TV era. Sometimes, it was a trial by fire. In 1957, for an adaptation of "Frankenstein" for the NBC anthology series "Matinee Theatre," he cast champion boxer Primo Carnera as the monster. At one point Carnera was supposed to pick up a stunt man and carry him a bit before putting him down. But the hulking boxer got carried away. "He grabs him, he lifts him up like a toy and threw him," Grauman said in a 2009 Academy of Television Arts and Sciences interview, "and the guy went right through the scenery, the wall." Luckily, the stunt man was not badly hurt and the show went on. It was the kind of situation that made Grauman nearly unflappable as a director, including when dealing with stars. When he directed an episode of the "Columbo" mysteries in 1990, actor Peter Falk rejected Grauman's setup of a shot, insisting that a pair of underwear on an actress be worn inside-out with the tag showing. "I thought it was crazy, what the hell did that have to do with the story?" Grauman said. Falk didn't explain and it wasn't in the script, but by the end of the shoot, the underwear turned out to be a clever clue. "That son-of-a-gun had figured it out in his head," Grauman said with admiration. Grauman finished his career with "Murder, She Wrote," directing more than 50 episodes. He was born March 17, 1922, in Milwaukee where his father owned several movie theaters. (His father's cousin Sid Grauman built the Chinese Theatre in Hollywood). Walter Grauman went to the University of Wisconsin for a couple of years and then briefly the University of Arizona before enlisting in the Army during World War II. As a pilot in the Army Air Forces, he flew more than 50 missions in Europe and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. After the war, he got a succession of short-lived jobs, including in the publicity department at Universal Studios, but felt that local TV shows were so terrible, he could do better. He co-created "Lights, Camera, Action!" a talent showcase/contest for performers, including a young Leonard Nimoy, who did not win his episode. Grauman went from that show to NBC where he directed several shows before getting his big break on "The Untouchables." TV historian Stephen Bowie wrote in his "Classic TV History" blog that Grauman's work on the series marked its "transformation from a simplistic cops-and-robbers shoot-'em-up into a richer, more character-driven melodrama." Grauman supported several local arts institutions. In the late 1980s he created the Spotlight Awards that annually give free training to students in music, dance and acting, culminating in an awards show at the Music Center. In addition to his wife, Grauman's survivors include a daughter, Amy Danzinger of Westlake Village; son Larry Grauman of Agoura Hills; and four grandchildren. Cynthia Lennon, John Lennon's first wife, dies at 75 Cynthia Lennon, who had a short, turbulent marriage to Beatles star John Lennon in the 1960s, died Wednesday at her home in Majorca, Spain. She was 75. The cause was cancer, according to a statement on her son Julian Lennon's website. Cynthia and John Lennon met at the Liverpool College of Art in the late 1950s. "He was always around, always surrounded by people who were in awe of him," she said in a 1995 London Times interview. "He was embarrassingly funny, and you couldn't resist it." Author Hunter Davies, who wrote the only authorized Beatles biography in 1968, described her as "quiet and reserved and calm." He said their friends at art school never thought the relationship would last because they were so different. But they married in 1962, when she was pregnant with Julian. It was the same year the Beatles made their first single, "Love Me Do." Cynthia Lennon has been portrayed as wanting only a simple, domestic life, but she said in a 1995 interview with the Independent in London that that was far from the truth. "I was training as an art teacher for four years, and it was only when I became pregnant that marriage followed, and the Beatles followed after that," she said. She was born Cynthia Lillian Powell on Sept. 10, 1939, in Blackpool, England. She grew up in the seaside town of Hoylake, where she was a soloist in the local girls' choir but wanted to pursue a career in art. She enrolled in the art college in nearby Liverpool in 1957. Beatles manager Brian Epstein wanted the couple to keep their marriage secret, believing it would be better if fans thought the Fab Four all were single. But as the group shot to fame, it was inevitable word would get out. When the Beatles made their live American TV debut in 1964 on "The Ed Sullivan Show," superimposed on a closeup of John Lennon was, "Sorry Girls, He's Married." But Cynthia Lennon didn't take well to the trappings of rock star life. "The first thing to do is if you're a pop star and you get a lot of money, you buy a mansion," she said on the public radio show "Fresh Air" in 2010. "All of a sudden, you find yourself with a chauffeur and a housekeeper and a cook and an interior designer and all the things in life that you've never experienced before." Meanwhile, she and her husband were drifting apart. Besides his all-consuming life as a Beatle, he was experimenting with drugs and had multiple affairs. The marriage finally came apart when she came home from a trip to find artist Yoko Ono dressed in her bathrobe in the house. After the 1968 divorce —in which she got custody of Julian, the house and 100,000 pounds (about $240,000 at the time) —Cynthia Lennon tried many endeavors. She was a TV host, recorded a song, sold much of her memorabilia and wrote two memoirs. She ended her 2005 book, "John," saying she was grateful for her son. But she wrote, "If I'd known as a teenager what falling for John Lennon would lead to, I would have turned round right then and walked away." John Lennon was killed by an assassin in 1980. Cynthia Lennon had four marriages —her last, to Noel Charles, ended with his death in 2013. She is survived by her son. 