Massive brawl at NYC casino over daiquiris The epic daiquiri throwdown Friday night at a bar in the Queens racino began with a staredown between two girls on a very long line for drinks. The 10:40 p.m. confrontation at the opening of Fat Tuesdays daiquiri bar in Resorts World Casino soon turned into a full-on brawl that involved two dozen combatants throwing punches and chairs, and left one cop and four security guards injured. "Two girls started this whole thing," said a casino worker who witnessed the bloodbath unfold. "They came in with their groups. Before you know it, they started looking at each other, they started bumping into each other and then all hell let loose." The violence was sparked by people steamed over the long wait for daiquiris, law-enforcement sources said. Three men were arrested. Andrew Rivers, 23, of Brooklyn, was charged with disorderly conduct, Jovan Bovell, 23, faced the same charge along with resisting arrest, police said. Marcus Stewart, 30, was issued two summonses for disorderly conduct and released. The chaotic scene spilled outside the casino's food court and into the parking lot, and caused thousands in damage, sources said. A police officer suffered a hand injury trying to break up the scuffle, and four guards suffered minor injuries, sources said. Video posted online showed crazed patrons throwing chairs, shouting, with yelling and the sound of glass breaking heard in the background. "I don't like to come at nights because too many rough necks come here," said an older woman on Saturday who visits the casino regularly. A spokesman for Resorts World said security had been beefed up and it was in talks with the NYPD about increasing patrols following the brawl. Police do not patrol inside the venue. "Entertainment venues across the city and country have faced issues like this in the past, but an incident like this is isolated at Resorts World," said a spokesman. "They done tore up the #FatTuesdaysNYC on the first night! Can't have nothing," tweeted one irritated partygoer. "Once y'all saw that dude in the 8 Ball jacket y'all should have known things about to go up," tweeted another. Another upset patron tweeted, "People always ask why we never get anything. Next time ask yourselves, "Why every time we get something, we destroy it.'' 'Rabbit hoarder' fights back with bizarre $2B suit Just in time for Easter. A hopping mad Brooklyn bunny hoarder was hauled into court Friday on charges of keeping 176 of the critters in a filthy junkyard—and on the way out she served a bizarre $2 billion lawsuit on the animal-rights activist who ratted her out. Dorota Trec, 35, accused "furiously jealous" Big Apple Bunnies founder Natalie Reeves, 41, of "dreaming that she has control over the whole rabbit world in New York City," the new court papers state. "In her smear campaign, Reeves refuses to acknowledge Dorota Trec's extensive achievements with rabbits and how wonderful for the community the rabbit project is." But prosecutors said Trec kept her pets in such awful conditions that they suffered from diseases like syphilis and had bite wounds all over their bodies. She was hit with two animal-cruelty charges and faces up to a year in jail. Reeves, a Tribeca lawyer, was slapped with the suit as she left Trec's arraignment in Brooklyn Criminal Court. An elderly man accompanying Trec threw the papers into Reeves' arms and yelled, "You've been served!" "Happy Easter to me!" Reeves quipped to The Post. "This lawsuit is not what I wanted the Easter Bunny to bring me in his basket." Trec was arrested last month after the cottontails were taken away by the ASPCA in two January raids. Assistant District Attorney Mary Monahan demanded she either pay for the pricey care or sign over ownership to the city. "There are over 170 rabbits the city has in possession. This has cost the city over $40,000 to date," Monahan said. Trec's lawsuit—which was filed Thursday in Brooklyn Supreme Court—seeks more than $2 billion in damages and also names the NYPD, the ASPCA and Brooklyn DA Kenneth Thompson as defendants. She accuses them of causing "loss of reputation, shame, mortification and hurt feelings [and] temporary loss of rabbits." She accuses Reeves of wrongful arrest, trespassing, defamation, harassment and wrongful seizure. Reeves had cautioned parents from buying Easter bunnies for their kids this year unless they can provide proper care. "If you are going to get a rabbit around Easter time, you have to know how to take care of them. Otherwise you could end up with a situation like this, with rabbits living like trash in a junkyard," said Reeves. Trec declined to comment after court except to say that Reeves and the other bunny lovers were on a "witch hunt" against her. Teen falls six stories trying to evade cops on rooftop A teen is in critical condition after he fell while fleeing cops along Bronx rooftops Thursday night, police sources said. Four uniformed officers doing a foot patrol along Valentine Avenue at about 7:30 p.m. were told by a 40-year-old man that there was a large group of teens hanging out in the lobby 2685 Valentine Ave. and smoking marijuana, cops said. After the cops approached the building, a man blocked the entrance way with his arms outstretched, giving the group time to flee. Officers Eduard Solano and Edmundo Rivera followed two teens, 14 and 17, onto the rooftop through an alarmed doorway and yelled at them to stop running. The 17-year-old, identified by a source as Hakeem Kuto of Pelham Bay in the Bronx, then climbed over a 3 foot wall and tried to jump between buildings, but lost his footing. The 14-year-old attempted give him support, cops said. According to police, when officer Rivera saw this, he unsuccessfully tried to grab the teen but was unable to as Kuto plunged six stories off the roof into an alleyway. Solano and Rivera alerted officers Maria Imburgia and Brian Mahon who remained in the lobby with three people that were with the initial group, and the four officers went to the alleyway where Imburgia performed chest compressions on the fallen teen, cops said. Kuto was rushed to St. Barnabas Hospital, where he remains in critical condition, cops said. It was originally reported that he'd died in the fall. There were no arrests and the Internal Affairs Bureau is conducting an investigation. Woman shot after brawl at NYC event hall A woman was shot after a brawl erupted inside a Bronx event hall, police said Saturday. The victim, 21, was with her sister inside of Centro Hainero, in Tremont, on Carter and East Tremont avenues at 4 a.m. when bottles suddenly went flying, police sources said. The brawl spilled outside when she and her sister tryied to get away from the mayhem, police said. Moments later shots were fired, and the woman realized she was struck in the hip, cops said. The victim took a cab to Bronx Lebanon Hospital where she is listed in stable condition, authorities said. No arrests have been made, and police believe the victim was an innocent bystander. Off-duty firefighter caught in coke bust An off-duty city firefighter was busted Friday night for allegedly selling cocaine in Manhattan, law enforcement sources said. Francisco Perez, 27, and another man, Danilo Duran, 32, allegedly were spotted dealing the drugs out of a car on the Lower East Side and were arrested after officers followed them to the Upper West Side, according to the sources. "They made a couple of hand-to-hand sales," one source said. Charges were pending late Friday night against Perez and Duran, the sources said. The two were busted by Manhattan South anti-crime officers. Taxpayers footing the bill for Sheldon Silver's corruption saga New Yorkers are shelling out bucks for Shelly. Taxpayers are being forced to pay out funds so Albany can respond to former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver's corruption indictment. The Assembly has hired white-collar criminal-defense firm Zuckerman Spaeder to handle requests for documents and other information related to the Silver case. The Assembly is authorized to pay the firm $45,000 through February 2016, according to state Comptroller's Office records. The expense stirred outrage among Silver's fellow lawmakers. "Once again, the taxpayers foot the bill," said Assemblyman Steve McLaughlin (R-Troy). "Sheldon Silver should reimburse the taxpayers for his alleged corruption." Silver has been accused of reaping more than $3 million in legal fees by steering cancer cases to the Weitz & Luxenberg law firm, while rewarding his medical tipster with state grants and other favors. He has pleaded not guilty and says he will be cleared. His defense sought to have the case tossed over Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara's "prejudiced" public remarks on the case. A spokesman for the new speaker, Carl Heastie, said Zuckerman Spaeder was hired to help the Assembly comply with Bharara's requests in the Silver case. "The Assembly is cooperating fully with the United States Attorney's Office. Ours is a cordial and professional relationship," said Zuckerman Spaeder attorney Paul Shechtman. The firm's hiring was first reported by The Buffalo News. It's hardly the first time Albany shenanigans have walloped taxpayers' wallets. In February, $545,000 in public funds were used to settle two cases of sexual harassment filed against ex-Assemblyman Vito Lopez by his former legislative aides. Lopez was forced to pay only $35,000 out of his own pocket. Silver was caught up in the Lopez case after it was revealed that he had OK'd a secret $103,000 settlement with two prior alleged victims of sexual harassment. That payout also came from the public coffers. Silver served as the Assembly leader since 1994 and was on the verge of becoming the longest tenured speaker ever before his January arrest. Democrats forced him out as their leader in February after the corruption charges and replaced him with Heastie, the former Bronx Democratic Party chair. On Thursday, a group of 45 law firms accused Silver of using his clout to stack the odds in asbestos and mesothelioma cases to favor Weitz & Luxenberg. Weitz & Luxenberg handles more than half of such cases in Manhattan Supreme Court. The 45 firms asked a judge to impose a 60-day moratorium on pending and new asbestos and mesothelioma cases so their complaints could be heard. Staff sues Cirque du Soleil for stiffing them on tips Around 40 waiters are suing Cirque du Soleil, claiming the performance company has stiffed them on tips at catered events. The lead plaintiff in the proposed class-action suit, Marshall Maor, says Cirque has relied on a "policy of unlawfully retaining employees gratuities" since 2009. The company charges customers a 7 to 20 percent mandatory fee for functions and then pockets the money, the suit says. But it doesn't use a disclaimer notifying customers that the service charge is not a gratuity for staff, according to the legal filing. "A reasonable customer would believe that the service charge was in fact a gratuity for [Maor] and [other] employees," according to the new Manhattan Supreme Court suit. Maor, who worked at Cirque's Randall's Island location in 2009, only made $11 an hour and didn't see a dime of gratuity, the suit says. The 33-year-old Bronx man primarily served food for the entertainment company for only one month, according to court papers. The case is for unspecified damages. The lawyers in the class action say they are still trying to find other servers, bussers, bartenders, food runners and hosts to join the case. A spokeswoman for Cirque du Soleil did not immediately comment. Cirque is also fending off a federal lawsuit filed last year in California by billionaire Alki David, who claims the company ripped off his hologram patent for the show "Michael Jackson: One." In 2004, Cirque paid an HIV-positive acrobat $600,000 after he filed a case claiming he was booted from the circus for fear the disease would spread to other performers. The gymnast, Matthew Cusick, said he had notified his employer he was HIV positive and rehearsed for months before getting canned. Fake cop makes over $1K frisking men, stealing wallets It's a case of stop-and-grift. A con artist posing as a cop has robbed six men in Queens since last fall by stopping them, searching them, and removing their wallets, authorities said. The phony lawman stalks the streets of Corona, Elmhurst, and Woodside between 12:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m., identifies himself as a cop to unsuspecting victims, then pats them down, police said. During the searches, he takes the victims' wallets, then hops into a waiting getaway car driven by an accomplice, cops said. The con has netted over $1,200 between October and March. The suspect is bald, and believed to be in his 30s. Religious New Yorkers gear up for Passover, Easter celebrations New Yorkers will be noshing and worshipping across the city this holy holiday weekend in celebration of Passover and Easter. For Jewish families, Seder feasts started Friday evening in honor of the first day of Passover, which ends on April 11. The holiday commemorates the Israelites' freedom from slavery in Egypt. Zabar's owner Eli Zabar told the Food Network his stores will be dishing out 8,000 matzo balls and 1,300 quarts of gefilte fish this Passover. Meanwhile, Christians will pour into the city's churches on Easter Sunday to commemorate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Vilma Fernandes, who has been attending Our Lady Queen of Martyrs Roman Catholic Church in Forest Hills since 1987, is eager to worship with her family. "It's a time of hope and great rejoicing," she said. More Americans search for "church" around Easter than at any other time, according to Google Trends data. "It's a very special holiday. If people don't usually come on Sundays, they come on this holiday. This church is always packed," said Vicki, who also attends the Forest Hills church. Some will also spend the holiday decked out in bizarre hats as part of the annual Easter Parade on Fifth Avenue. Walgreens manager busted & broken in cig-stealing scheme A Staten Island Walgreens manager fuming over getting passed over for a promotion got his revenge by swiping $100,000 worth of cigarettes over the course of a year, police sources said Friday. But the butt head's plot was foiled when he tried to make off with 300 packs of smokes Friday—only to trip over a road barrier and snap his leg in a klutzy getaway, the sources said. Tony Nazario, 29, of Old Bridge, NJ, had been using a key to get into the store on Forest Avenue near Decker Avenue after-hours and swipe a total of at least 10,000 packs of smokes since January 2014, police sources said. Cops snuffed out his 23-pack-a-day habit after the bumbling bandit stuffed 300 packs of cigarettes—including Newports, Salems and Mavericks—into two garbage bags at around 12:30 a.m. Friday, the sources said. When police showed up, Nazario dropped the bags and ran, police sources said. But his getaway moves were worse than a winded chain smoker. He tried to hop a road barrier, failed to clear it and shattered his leg, said law-enforcement sources. Even as he lay in a pool of blood—with his shin bone poking out through his skin—he tried to fight off cops, refusing to be cuffed, police sources said. Later he confessed to the cigarette scheme, telling officers he was mad at the company's regional manager and had stolen the cigarettes to "get his," according to police sources. As he lay bleeding on the ground, he added, "I shouldn't have ran." Nazario was rushed to Richmond University Medical Center with a compound fracture. The disgruntled worker went to the Walgreens every Thursday night after it closed to raid it, police sources said. He may have sold the packs of cheap cigarettes to delis, police sources said. Cops were tipped off about the heist by another worker, police sources said. Nazario was moved to Staten Island University Hospital to undergo surgery on Friday. Workers at the Walgreens on Friday claimed they had no clue about the scheme. Walgreens spokeswoman Emily Hartwig had no comment Friday. "We would refer you to local police regarding this matter," she said. Nazario, who was charged with grand larceny and burglary, could not be reached for comment at the hospital Friday. Body found floating near golf course ID'd as missing autistic Eagle Scout The body found floating in a creek near a south Brooklyn golf course Thursday afternoon was identified Friday as Brian Gewirtz, bringing a tragic end to the weeks-long search for the autistic 20-year-old. Gewirtz, who also suffered from type-2 diabetes, was last seen leaving his family's Coleman Street home on the morning of Feb. 17, authorities said. The grim discovery was made alongside the eighth hole of the waterfront Marine Park Golf Course shortly after 4 p.m. on Thursday. Officials on Friday identified the body as Gewirtz. A family friend who answered the phone at the Marine Park home Friday evening said the parents of the Eagle Scout were too heartbroken to speak. "The family is completely distraught," said the friend, who participated in the extensive searches for Gewirtz. "The father and mother can't talk." The medical examiner is still working to identify the cause of Gewirtz's death. Husband of accused bomb plotter: 'I don't believe any of it' The distraught husband of one of the women accused of plotting to build a bomb and use it in New York City insisted his wife is innocent Friday afternoon. "I don't believe any of it," Abu Bakr said of his wife, 28-year-old Noelle Velentzas, who was arrested with her pal Asia Siddiqui, 31, on Thursday morning. "I'm trying to handle this the best I can but I'm walking with my head down," he added. "It's not who I am." He claimed his wife, who he shares two children with, never had a picture of Osama bin Laden on her cell phone, as authorities said. Bakr also denied that Velentzas was obsessed with pressure cookers and thought about making a bomb with one. "If everyone who had a pressure cooker in their house would be charged for it, a lot of people would be. It's like having a butter knife," he said. The whole community has been blindsided by their arrest, he said, adding that the two women were just "good, good friends." "I can't say nothing bad about [Siddiqui]," he said. "She never showed anything like that to us." Woman sues FDNY over injuries suffered in ambulance A Brooklyn woman called 911 for her breathing problems but ended up in even worse shape when FDNY EMS workers shoved her into an ambulance so carelessly that her leg was gashed open and needed 21 stitches, court papers state. "Instead of using a stretcher they tried to boost me up into the ambulance," said Jacqueline Vanderhorst, 58. "My leg got caught in the middle and I ended up with 21 stitches. When I laid down in the ambulance, the sheets were full of blood." The Brooklyn Supreme Court lawsuit says the EMS attendants who responded to Vanderhorst's Canarsie housing project in July 2014 told her they weren't able to lower the steps into the ambulance because they were "unserviceable." "When people call for help to go to a hospital, they shouldn't get there with another injury as a result of the transport," said Vanderhorst lawyer Roman Avshalumov. "Vanderhorst was forced and literally pushed in the ambulance by the EMS attendants, resulting in serious injuries to her left leg which needed immediate medical attention and stitches," reads the suit. Vanderhorst said one of the EMS attendants was even cruel about her injury. "One said, 'Accidents happen. She ain't going to be able to walk for awhile,'" Vanderhorst remembered. A city Law Department spokesman said they would review the lawsuit. Social worker accused of stealing over $214K from 94-year-old lady A crooked city social worker looted over $214,000 from the bank accounts of a 94-year-old Brooklyn woman she was supposed to be caring for — and used the cash at stores like Boston Market, Best Buy and Bath & Body Works, according to court papers released Friday. Adult Protective Services case manager Cecile Davidson, 50, wrote herself $105,851.34 worth of checks out of the 94-year-old's Capital One bank account, according to the Brooklyn District Attorney's Office. Davidson also used a debit card linked to the old lady's account to withdraw $67,366.43 from ATMs and to buy US Postal Service money orders. "The point of sale transactions included use of the card at businesses including the US Post Office, Boston Market, Food Baszzar, Comcast Cable, NYC Taxi, Bath & Body Works, Best Buy, Target, Duane Reade, Kmart, Macy's, and TJ Maxx," the indictment reads. "This defendant was entrusted by the city to help an elderly woman live safely at home," said Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson. "Instead, she allegedly defrauded the victim in a shameful act of greed and deception against a 94-year old woman." Davidson has worked since 2012 as a case manager for Village Care of New York, a subcontractor for Adult Protective Services, a program run by the city's Human Resources Administration, according to the DA. She was arrested in Georgia and arraigned Friday on grand larceny and other charges and remanded. She faces up to 15 years behind bars if convicted. Defense attorney Hermann Walz didn't return a call for comment. Man arrested in robbery of pregnant woman at ATM The homeless man who forced a pregnant woman to take out money from a Greenwich Village ATM — and threatened to cut out her unborn baby — was arrested Friday morning, cops said. Melvin Johnson, 49, pulled out a silver metal object and made the terrified 35-year-old mother-to-be take out $400 from a Sixth Avenue Bank of America ATM on the morning of March 30, telling her he would cut her if she didn't, according to cops. The woman was not injured and Johnson fled on foot after getting the cash. Johnson was charged with robbery. Demoted cop who berated Uber driver: 'I sincerely apologize' The NYPD detective whose tirade against an Uber driver received more than three million hits on YouTube apologized Friday, saying "I let my emotions get the better of me" after the driver refused to hand over his license and registration. Detective Patrick Cherry issued the mea culpa to NBC 4 New York. "I apologize. I sincerely apologize," said Cherry, who was stripped of his shield and gun after Monday's rant was captured on a passenger's cellphone. He was driving an unmarked patrol car and trying to park when the driver pulled up fast behind him and gestured wildly in his direction, he told NBC 4 New York. Cherry said he then pulled him over to "clarify the situation." "When I walked up, I was uptight," Cherry said. "I wanted to know what the problem was. What did I do that was so wrong that I had to get chastised? I felt his driving actions were discourteous and impolite and when he stopped he said, 'I'm not giving you anything.'" "I was upset that he refused to give me his license and registration and I yelled inappropriately," Cherry continued. "That's not who I am, that's not who I've been and that's not how I conducted myself as an officer in New York City." Cherry has been removed from the department's elite Joint Terrorism Task Force and will be doing desk duty until he is officially transferred out of the prestigious division. The incident is being investigated by the Civilian Complaint Review Board, where he has been the subject of a dozen prior complaints, some for exhibiting the same sort of verbal abuse, a source said. In the video, Cherry blows up in the driver's face after the Uber driver apparently honked at him and and made a gesture with his hand as he tried to park his unmarked car along the West Side Highway in Greenwich Village. The video shows Cherry barking into the driver's face through the open door, at times mocking the man's accent. "Stop it with your mouth. Stop it with your 'For what sir, for what sir.' Stop it with that bulls–t, and realize the three vehicle and traffic laws you committed," Cherry screams during the three-minute tirade. "I don't know what f–king planet you think you're on right now. Now sit in your f–king car and stay there," he shouts before slamming the door. The abuse continues when Cherry walks back to the car and starts to speak to the driver, identified in the video only as "Humayun." But when the driver responds with "OK," the cop goes off on him again. "OK what? You don't let me f–king finish. Stop interrupting me," he screams. "Who do you think you're talking to here?" "Every time I open my mouth, you have something to say." The officer was trying to park an unmarked car without using a blinker, according to statements made in the video. "You're driving up my a— when I'm trying to park the car and then you have to do something with your hands," he says. "I don't know where you're coming from, where you think you're appropriate in doing that; that's not the way it works. How long have you been in this country?" At the end of the video, the cop tells the shell-shocked driver that the only reason he isn't being arrested is because the officer is too busy. "The only reason you're not in handcuffs going to jail and getting summonses in the precinct is because I have things to do," he says. "This isn't important enough for me. You're not important enough." Guatemalan man held after heroin found in seat cushion at JFK A Guatemalan man who arrived at JFK Airport found himself on the hotseat after authorities found heroin stuffed in a seat cushion inside his bag, authorities said. Esteban Antonio Ortiz Ramos arrived at JFK from Guatemala via San Salvador, El Salvador, on March 26 and was inspected by US Customs and Border Protection officers. The suspicious officers took his bag to a search room for a more thorough inspection, which revealed a brown powdery substance that tested positive for heroin, official said. A total of about 2 pounds of the drug was seized. Authorities estimate the haul to have a street value of more than $66,000. Ramos, who faces federal narcotics smuggling charges, was turned over to Homeland Security Investigations. "This seizure is just another example of our CBP officers being ever vigilant in protecting the United States from the distribution of these illicit drugs," said Robert E. Perez, head of the Customs and Border Protection's New York field operations. 'I'm Pablo, I will be famous!': Truck thief runs past TSA checkpoint at JFK A truck thief sparked a full-blown terror scare at JFK Airport on Friday when he ditched the vehicle outside Terminal 8 and then ran screaming past a TSA checkpoint and into the departures area — and nearly made it to a plane, law enforcement sources told The Post. "I'm Pablo, I will be famous!" shouted Claudio Duran, 20, as he darted through the American Airlines terminal around 6 a.m., the sources said. The Harlem resident had shockingly managed to make it through the front doors of the major airport, sprint up an escalator to a TSA screening area and then dash past security through an unguarded exit door that is only supposed to be accessible with an access card. It is still unclear how Duran was able to bypass the lock, but he most likely snuck in behind someone who had opened the door just moments prior, the sources said. Duran was then able to infiltrate a lengthy underground passageway that extends under the tarmac to the second half of Terminal 8. Once he emerged on the other side, he barged through an entrance at Gate 37 and bolted down the jet bridge toward a plane that was docked there. But standing in his way was Samuel B. Strausser — a brave pilot who took matters into his own hands and stopped Duran before he could breach the cabin. Flying for Envoy Air, a subsidiary of American Airlines, the airport vigilante managed to keep the young man in a makeshift wrestling hold, with his arm behind his back, while he waited for Port Authority police to arrive. Duran had somehow gotten at least a quarter-mile past security before eventually getting wrangled by Strausser, the sources said, adding that the incident had illustrated multiple security failures. "This is a perfect example of the failure of airport security under the TSA," a veteran law enforcement official explained to The Post. "If there was a police officer assigned to that screening point, it is highly unlikely that this individual would have gotten beyond that point." Meanwhile, the Rollo Mio Artisan Bakery truck that Duran had stolen near his home earlier had caused a total panic on the upper roadway outside the terminal. Authorities swooped in and K-9 cops were called in to sweep the vehicle for explosives. After nothing dangerous was found, Port Authority officers took Duran into custody and determined that he was emotionally disturbed, according to the sources. He was arrested and charged with grand larceny, criminal possession of stolen property, criminal trespass and trespass. Horace Mann settles sex-abuse suit A sexual-abuse victim who stormed out of settlement meetings with the elite Horace Mann School in 2013 won the biggest payday yet from the Bronx private school and the estate of his pedophile teacher, according to sources and court records. The Bergen County, NJ, case was settled March 31 between the former Horace Mann student, identified only as John Doe in court papers, the school and the estate of his abuser, late music instructor Johannes Somary, according to the legal filings. Settlement details are confidential but the former student, who says Somary abused him at a boat basin and glee-club concerts in New Jersey, had originally demanded $15 million. He accused Somary of molesting him 450 times between 1973 and 1977. The suit blamed the school, which counts former Gov. Eliot Spitzer and publishing titan Si Newhouse as alumni, of covering up Somary's crimes. Somary's victim was able to bring his suit in the Garden State, where the statute of limitations is more flexible than laws governing sexual abuse in New York. Sources say John Doe's payment far exceeds what 27 of his colleagues received from Horace Mann in 2013. The highest figures were around $350,000 and the lowest $20,000. At the time, John Doe's attorney, Rosemarie Arnold, blasted the paltry sums. "The settlement payouts…don't come close to compensating the victims for the horrendous abuse they endured during their formative years," Arnold told The Post in a 2013 interview. She added, "My client, who is one of the most severely abused, has shown tremendous courage in refusing to accept a pittance in exchange for his entitlement to justice and desire to hold those responsible for his torment fully accountable." A spokeswoman for the $43,400-a-year school declined to comment. Attorneys for the Somary estate did not immediately comment. Somary, who was from a wealthy family, died in 2011. Arnold declined to comment except to confirm the settlement. The deal came just after Arnold grilled current headmaster Tom Kelly who's been accused by survivors groups of trying to sweep the ugly history under the rug. The case was scheduled for a jury trial when it settled earlier this week. Horace Mann had already lost an attempt to toss the suit, arguing that New Jersey courts do not have jurisdiction over the Riverdale school. The John Doe settlement puts an end to litigation against the school over sexual abuse that allegedly occurred at Horace Mann for two decades from the 1970s to the 1990s. The tony prep school is widely reported to have been a pedophile's paradise, ensnaring at least 50 students and involved more than 20 teachers. Screenwriter and former Horace Mann student Amos Kamil first reported the sordid history in a 2012 New York Times expose. A book based on his reporting is scheduled to hit shelves in November. De Blasio urges Clinton, candidates to talk income gap Mayor Bill de Blasio called on presidential contenders of both parties Thursday to shrink income inequality—including his mentor and ally, Hillary Rodham Clinton. "If she becomes a candidate, I absolutely believe she needs to address this ­issue," the mayor said. His challenge came after he huddled with progressive leaders to hash out a plan to pressure pols to narrow the income gap. 'Mistress' lawyer sues ex-lover for $3M An aging jilted lover says her former sugar daddy is nothing but a cheat. Manhattan lawyer Christine Anderson says she and married dad of three Dr. Peta Carrera started an affair after she went to him as a patient in 1987, according to a new $3 million lawsuit. When Anderson, 70, and Carrera, 85, weren't romping in an East 53rd Street love nest, he was whisking her off to the Caribbean for scuba-diving trips and promising to buy her a "Mistress Benz," a "smaller more feminine version" of his larger-model Mercedes, her Manhattan Supreme Court suit alleges. Carrera, who never made good on the car gift, gave Anderson an American Express card, cash and money for groceries, the suit says. But he allegedly refused to pay her $600,000 bill for seven years of work when she lost a case in which she represented Carrera in a $1.7 million case involving a patient who accused the gynecologist of fondling her on the exam table. The affair ended after 2011, says Anderson, who is now suing Carrera and his late wife's estate for the $600,000, another $500,000 in palimony and $2 million in punitive damages. Carrera, reached at his East Side home, declined to comment. Douglas Elliman sues VIP broker Zampolli for 'hoarding' profits He's hardly the model broker, a new lawsuit charges. Paolo Zampolli, the flamboyant founder of a Manhattan modeling agency who now works as a real estate broker, hoarded $1.5 million in commissions from his employer, Douglas Elliman, a Manhattan civil suit says. Elliman is suing Zampolli—an Italian aristocrat and UN ambassador—claiming that he reneged on their 2011 agreement to hand over 30 percent of his commissions. The suit charges the ID Models founder with using his personal email address to try to hide a total $4 million in commissions—and their $1.5 million stake. Elliman now wants all $4 million as punishment. Zampolli told The Post the suit is baseless. "I think that this has been triggered by the fact that I left," Zampolli said, explaining that Elliman execs allowed him to keep his own brokerage license while contracting for the company but they have since parted ways. His lawyer, Raymond Dowd, said Zampolli never had an Elliman listing during the three years he worked for the Realtors. But the suit says Zampolli accessed Elliman's "proprietary real property listing system . . . on over 800 separate occasions." Zampolli sniffed, "I don't know how to use their system. There is something called Streeteasy.com that is free and it works. That is much better." New NY budget allocates cash for beer, onions, and pit bulls It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas—in the new state ­budget. The $142 billion spending plan ­includes $125,000 in appropriations for the Christmas Tree Farmers Association of New York, which got one of the hundreds of pork-barrel grants handed out. Cornell University received $12,000 for onion research and another $200,000 for beer-making research; lawmakers earmarked $12,000 for honey bee research; $150,000 was given to the Maple Producers Association, and $115,000 went to the Berry Growers Association. Even pit bulls got love from Albany, with the budget appropriating $5,000 to Out of the Pits, a group that aids stray dogs of that breed. Another $2,500 goes to the New York Whale and Dolphin Action League. In one careless example, $24,523 in funds were earmarked to the defunct left-wing group ACORN, which shut its doors in 2010. "ACORN is deader than a doornail. It doesn't exist anymore," said its former general counsel, Arthur Schwartz.Lawmakers kicked in at least $2.2 million in taxpayer funds for the NFL's Buffalo Bills, a nice pass to help keep the team from leaving the Empire State. Another $1 million was allocated to the Wine and Grape Foundation, and the state's Wine Council gets another $50,000 to promote vino tourism. Meanwhile, $1,100 was set aside for the Mill River Rod & Gun Club, $5,000 for the Sports Fishing Alliance, and $2,985 to the Staten Island Sports Hall of Fame. Birdwatchers, rejoice: $8,750 is earmarked to the Garden City Bird Sanctuary on Long Island. Among the arts and music programs funded are the Municipal Arts Society ($2,500), the Brooklyn Heights Music Society ($2,488) and the Woodstock ­Poetry Festival ($2,557). Dozens of city merchant and civic groups were handed funds—including the Queens Tourism Council ($170,000), the Red Hook Chamber of Commerce ($4,160) and the Whitestone Taxpayers Community Center ($100,000). Goverment-watchdog groups slammed the pork-barrel grants, which were added to the budget at the 11th hour without prior debate. "Too much of the spending takes place in the shadows," said Dick Dadey, director of Citizens Union. The Christmas Tree Farmers Association defended its funding as important in its competition with growers from other states. Association director Mary Jane Packer said North Carolina growers sell more Christmas trees in New York City than do in-state growers. "We want to raise awareness with New York customers of the importance of buying a New York tree," Packer said of the group's "Pride in New York" campaign. Con Ed flooded with reports of gas leaks since East Village blast Reports of gas leaks have skyrocketed by 64 percent since a deadly gas explosion killed two people in the East Village a week ago, The Post has learned. Con Edison received 1,787 calls to its emergency hotline in the six-day period after the explosion on March 26—a spike from the 1,099 calls logged in the six days before the explosion, said Allan Drury, a spokesman for the utility company. "That's a very large increase." Shaken East Villagers have reported at least a half-dozen leaks over the past week, according to a map on Con Ed's website. The company rushed to inspect at least three of those reports, which it deemed top "priority" and has since made safe. Authorities suspect illegal plumbing work on a gas line caused last week's explosion and fire, which destroyed 121 Second Ave. and two adjacent buildings. Since the disaster, complaints about gas plumbing have also inundated 311 operators. The city responded to 207 "plumbing" complaints in Manhattan—a category that includes gas leaks, gas-line tampering and illegal pipe work—since last week, according to 311 data posted on its website. That's an 85 percent increase over the prior week, when only 112 such complaints were logged for the borough. There was a similar spike in gas-leak complaints after an apartment building in East Harlem exploded and killed eight people in March 2014, Drury said. Con Ed logged a total of 41,102 emergency calls in 2014, an increase of 57 percent from 2013. "When we see an increase in gas calls like last year, we consider that a good thing. The leaks that are dangerous are the leaks that aren't reported to us," Drury said. Meanwhile, the FDNY continued on Thursday to dig through the rubble on Second Avenue. Workers operating a large crane ripped up debris for removal. There were no signs that authorities found any incriminating evidence or pieces of the gas pipe involved in the blast. Suspect in critical condition after falling from rooftop escaping cops A teen is in critical condition after he fell while fleeing cops along Bronx rooftops Thursday night, police sources said. The unidentified 17-year-old plunged six stories from atop 2685 Valentine Ave. about 7:40 p.m. as he attempted to elude officers ­arresting him. He fell as he tried to jump a gap between buildings. He was rushed to St. Barnabas Hospital, where he remains in critical condition, cops said. It was originally reported that he'd died in the fall. Cops did not immediately say why they were arresting him. Rape suspect arrested inside McDonald's A New Jersey man suspected in the brutal kidnapping and rape of a young woman in Paterson last week was collared by eagle-eyed law-enforcement agents Thursday afternoon inside a crowded Manhattan McDonald's restaurant, sources told The Post. Craig Hall, 23 is accused of snatching his victim off the street last week and raping her in a nearby abandoned building before taking her to his apartment and continuing the sex assault there, sources said. Hall was acquitted of a similar attack in 2012 when a 13-year-old girl accused him of kidnapping her from her home before beating her and forcing her to perform oral sex on him. Along with NYPD detectives and Paterson law-enforcement officers, US Marshals from the Regional Fugitive Task Force had been trailing Hall in Manhattan before finally spotting him on the second floor of the fast-food restaurant. Sources said the dangerous fugitive was eating in a corner of the McDonald's with his hoodie low on his head to remain inconspicuous. He went without a struggle after being cornered, sources said. Hall will be transferred to New Jersey, where he will face rape charges. Roughly a month after he was acquitted of the initial rape rap in 2014, Hall was arrested for criminal mischief and was served six months behind bars. NYPD receives $180M grant to aid fight against terrorism The NYPD will be getting a boost of federal funds to help combat terrorism, officials announced Wednesday. The city will receive $180 million as part of a nationwide grant program from the Department of Homeland Security that aims to better prepare local and state governments and law enforcement agencies in the event of a terrorist attack. The NYPD will be getting the lion's share of the cash, which will go toward surveillance and terror fighting equipment like cameras, bomb sniffing dogs and communications infrastructure, according to DHS secretary Jeh Johnson. Money will also be used to pay for things like overtime costs for police officers and anti-terror teams at airports, bus and train stations. "Given how the terrorist threat to the world is evolving, how the potential terrorist threat to our nation is evolving, homeland security is becoming a matter of hometown security," Johnson said. "The Department of Homeland Security therefore must work with organizations like the New York City police department and other state and local law enforcement." In addition to the money allotted to the city, the rest of the state will divvy up almost $77 million. The grants for the city and state are part of a $1.6 billion payout the DHS will make to cities and states around the country. Earlier this year, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton lobbied lawmakers in Washington to continue funding the financially strapped DHS during a budget standoff in Congress back in February. Bratton said at the time that the threat of a lone-wolf attack by terror groups like ISIS are at an all time high. Three Brooklyn residents were arrested and charged with trying to aid and join ISIS back in February. On Thursday, two more women from Queens were arrested after being accused of planning to construct bombs made of out propane gas tanks, authorities said. 'Good twin' takes sweet plea deal in robbery of sugar daddy Good news for the good twin. One of the twin sisters accused of tying up and robbing a kinky 85-year-old man they met on a sugar-daddy Web site copped a sweet plea deal in Manhattan court Thursday. Shalaine Foster, 17, pleaded to robbery in the second degree in exchange for 1 1/3 to 4 years in prison. She was given youthful-offender status and won't have a criminal record after she does her time. "The Peoples' theory is that the two of you tied up this man and forcibly stole his property including money and credit cards. Do you admit you participated in that conduct?" Justice Michael Obus asked Foster. "Yes," she answered softly, wearing a white blouse and grey jeans. In court papers, Shalaine blamed her allegedly evil twin, Shaina, for hatching the sinister plot and dragging her along for the wild ride. Shaina allegedly met retired lawyer Paul Aronson on the site seekingarrangements.com and brought her sister to their Oct 1 date. The odd trio headed back to his luxury townhouse on East 38th Street for what he hoped was some fun. Instead, the duplicitous sisters allegedly zip tied Aronson to a coffee table, swiped his cash and credit cards and went on a shopping spree. The perverted octogenarian floundered for 20 hours before he was discovered by a friend. Shaina took full responsibility for the sordid ordeal and implored cops not to get her sister in trouble, court papers show. "There's always that story of the good twin and the bad twin, who goes right and who goes wrong," Shalaine's lawyer, Brian Kennedy,has said. "My client will be doing good things with her future," Kennedy added Thursday. "She will finish high school, she has stellar grades and will go on to college. On the other hand, her sister may be in jail for the next 10 years." If convicted at trial, Shalaine faced a minimum of 15 years on the top count. Her sister wasn't offered the same generous plea deal, and her case is still pending. Aronson declined to comment. Corpse found floating in creek near golf course A dead body was found floating Thursday alongside the Marine Park Golf Course in Brooklyn, shocking golfers out enjoying one of the first pleasant days of the season. Police are on site investigating. "They're going to retrieve the body," a worker in the pro shop told The Post shortly before 6 p.m. "It's in the creek on the eighth hole of the course. It apparently came up with the tide." The superintendent made the gruesome discovery in the afternoon, on a day when nearly 100 golfers have made the rounds. The body was found in a creek that runs to the course from Gerritsen Beach. 'Remorseless' rap thug slapped with three life sentences A Brooklyn drug dealer-turned-failed rapper was defiant to the bitter end in Brooklyn Federal Court on Thursday as an angered judge sentenced him to three life sentences for murders and racketeering. Ronald "Ra Diggs" Herron, who ran a drug operation out of the Gowanus Houses, was hit with the mandatory terms after a jury convicted him of whacking a trio of rivals and a slew of other crimes. "You can sentence me to 10 life sentences," he told the court. "But I am only going to die one time. God have mercy on all of us." Herron, who once recorded with rapper Waka Flocka Flame, repeatedly refused to stand up when Judge Nicholas Garaufis ordered him to rise. He finally acquiesced. Herron's family and friends in the audience muttered loudly throughout the proceeding, and one man even stood up as Herron was sentenced before he was ordered to take a seat. "There is not an ounce of remorse in his body," Garaufis said before handing down the mandatory terms. Union to partially settle 44-year-old discrimination lawsuit A New York-based union for sheet-metal workers agreed to pay $12.7 million to partially settle a 44-year-old discrimination lawsuit brought by Hispanic and black workers, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said Thursday. The settlement, which stems from a suit filed in 1971, covers nearly 400 workers who claimed they were unfairly treated between April 1991 and June 2006. The Local 28 of the Sheet Metal Workers International Association will initially pay $4 million to the employees — and then contribute millions more over the next five years. The settlement is pending approval in Manhattan federal court. "It's considered a fair settlement not only by us but hopefully by the court," said Tom Lepak, one of the lawyers on the case. The union, which represents some 4,000 journeymen, didn't immediately return a message seeking comment. City has issued 90K municipal IDs since January launch The city has issued about 90,000 municipal ID cards since the program launched in mid-January—while detecting two cases of suspected fraud, officials said Thursday. In both instances, the alleged impostors applied for cards using someone else's name and documents, but the cards were never issued and the victims were alerted by letter. "These instances are examples of the importance of [anti-fraud] measures and show that they are working as intended," program officials said in a report to the City Council. To date, more than 105,000 applications have been processed for the cards, which were intended to foster community participation among undocumented immigrants. Of the boroughs, immigrant-rich Queens has accounted for the most applications—34,616 submitted between Jan. 12 and March 30. By contrast, there were only 3,513 in Staten Island. The report said no identifying information was shared with other city departments or law enforcement agencies. Feds: City could lose $129M in ACS funding over poor facilities The city could lose $129 mil­lion a year in Head Start funding if it doesn't fix six serious problems in child facilities, the feds told the City Council Wednesday. "If any of the six deficiencies are determined to be uncorrected, [the feds] will proceed with a notice to terminate ACS's Head Start grant," said Evangeline Santiago-Artesona, a Children and Families Program specialist with the Department of Health and Human Services. The city's Administration for Children's Services is the nation's largest recipient of Head Start funding. But ACS was called out in a scathing federal report for issues like child-care facilities with rodents, hazardous furniture and unsupervised kids. Young girl kidnapped by mother, possibly taken to Germany The NYPD is looking for a 7-year-old girl who was taken by her mother during a custody dispute with the girl's father. Cops say they believe Ulrike Berger, 44, took her daughter Kaia to Germany in violation of a court order that prohibits her from leaving the country with the child. Kaia was last seen on March 21 at 10 a.m. after her father dropped her off at Ulrike's apartment at 78 Butler Street in Brooklyn, according to officials. Police say the mother appears to have taken the girl to Germany the next day. The NYPD is investigating the custody battle as a possible kidnapping, cops said Thursday. Ulrike Berger, a German national, also goes by the name of Julie Berger, according to police sources. Anyone with information in regards to Kaia's whereabouts is asked to call the NYPD's Crime Stoppers Hotline at 800-577-TIPS. The public can also submit their tips by logging onto the Crime Stoppers Website at WWW.NYPDCRIMESTOPPERS.COM or texting their tips to 274637(CRIMES) then enter TIP577. Letters from old Yankee Stadium strike out at auction The giant letters that spelled "Yankee Stadium" atop the original Bronx ballpark failed to find a buyer at an auction in New York. They were estimated to fetch between $300,000 and $600,000 at Sotheby's Wednesday night. Yankee legend Reggie Jackson bought the iconic 10-foot-high sign after the Yankees' last game at the stadium in 2008. The letters had adorned the ballpark, which was built in 1923, since 1976. They were there when Jackson hit three consecutive home runs in the sixth game of the 1977 World Series. The 68-year-old Hall of Famer said he wanted "a new generation to own and enjoy this icon of the Yankees and of New York City." The letters range from 2 to 10 feet in width, and light up electric blue. Pedestrian fatally hit by hit-and-run driver A hit-and-run driver fatally struck a man crossing a Queens street late Wednesday night, authorities said. The 61-year-old victim was crossing 46th Avenue midblock near Utopia Parkway in Auburndale around 11:40 p.m., when he was mowed down by the vehicle, cops said. The man, whose name has not been released, was rushed to Flushing Hospital, but he could not be saved. A description of the vehicle was not immediately available and no arrests have been made, cops said. Cops stop tinted-window car, find machine gun Three cops stopped a car with illegally tinted windows in Brooklyn and found more than they bargained for—a trove of weapons and ammo that included a machine gun, authorities said. The anti-crime officers pulled over the red 2013 Chevy Impala near Ralph Avenue and Bainbridge Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant around 5 p.m., Wednesday, after noticing the excessive tints, police said. When the driver, 36-year-old Harvey McManus, said he didn't have any paperwork for the vehicle, the cops asked him to step out of the car. As McManus was getting out, one of the eagle-eyed officers spotted a large knife sitting on the driver's side floor, authorities said. A more thorough search of the Chevy turned up a Pioneer Arms 9mm machine gun, two stun guns, and an assortment of ammunition. McManus, who lives on nearby Chauncey Street, was hit with a slew of charges including weapons possession and a violation for the tint. Officers Ryan Galvin, Mark Xylas, and Vaughan Ettienne were credited with the bust, police said. Art dealer tried to sell stolen Indian relic: federal agent An Upper East Side art dealer tried to peddle a swiped Indian relic at a Manhattan show last week—and when someone warned him it was stolen, he then quickly off-loaded it in a fire sale, according to court papers. Manhattan DA Cyrus Vance won a court order last week freezing nearly $500,000 in assets belonging to the dealer, Nayef Homsi, who runs a gallery on East 75th Street. Vance's office plans to arrest Homsi in the coming days after a eight-year investigation aided by the US Department of Homeland Security. Special Federal Agent Brenton Easter says in court papers that Homsi tried to hawk the "29-inch, black stone 9th century statue from the Orissa region of India" at the Asia Week Exhibition on Madison Avenue on March 17. He offered the relic, labeled a "Bhairava," for $70,000 but then pulled the piece when someone notified him that the statue had been stolen from an Indian temple, according to the legal filing. Homsi promised to investigate the piece's provenance, but then March 18, he "dropped the price by $15,000 and sold the Bhairava to a buyer in London, England for $55,000 listing the source as 'a European Collection," the filing says. The Greenpoint, Brooklyn, resident allegedly sold two more stolen artifacts, including a gilt bronze statue of a 13th century deity lifted from a Nepalese temple. He unloaded the piece to a Beijing-based buyer for $370,000 in 2013, according to court papers. The feds got a warrant to access Homsi's e-mails and learned that the dealer was "nervous" about selling the statue, known as Samvara, because it had "the black spot of theft on it," he wrote in a 2012 message to another dealer, according to special agent Easter. Homsi's third black-market transaction involved a phyllite stone statue from the Bihari region of India. An informant told Easter that Homsi received the 11th century relic from an "unnamed co-conspirator" who'd traded in "illegal and stolen Indian antiquities" for years. The co-conspirator consigned the piece to Homsi, who sold it to unidentified buyers for $70,000. The court papers say the sculpture was covered in dirt, "the very hallmark of a recently excavated or stolen antiquity." Homsi and his lawyer did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment. He's due in court on the civil forfeiture action April 14. In the meantime, he hatched a deal with the DA to keep about $14,000 in a checking account to pay his legal fees and living expenses. ISIS-inspired 'bad bitches' arrested in NYC 'bomb plot' Two ISIS-obsessed Queens women were busted on terror charges Thursday for allegedly plotting to use a weapon of mass destruction in New York City—with one potential target a police funeral, authorities said. Former roommates Asia Siddiqui, 31, and Noelle Velentzas, 28, had been planning an attack since May 2013—and they stockpiled tanks of propane gas, along with information on how to turn them into bombs, according to a criminal complaint. "If left to their own devices, then they would have pulled this off," a law-enforcement source told The Post. Both women were arrested at their homes early Thursday morning on charges that could send them to prison for life. They declared themselves "citizens of the Islamic State" and said they hoped to become "real bad bitches" during conversations with an undercover officer who befriended them in 2013, court papers say. "It's war, it's f–king war," Velentzas allegedly said when all three met on Aug. 8. Siddiqui was pals with the late Samir Khan, a former Queens resident who edited an online magazine for al Qaeda before being killed by a US drone strike in Yemen in 2011, court papers say. She sent a letter of support to Mohamed Mohamud, who is locked up for trying to bomb a 2010 Christmas-tree lighting ceremony in Portland, Ore., according to the Brooklyn federal court complaint. Siddiqui also wrote a poem in the magazine Jihad Recollections in 2009 that said she "taste(s) the Truth through fists and slit throats," the court papers say. She also sent a letter of support to Mohamed Mohamud, who's locked up for trying to bomb a 2010 Christmas-tree lighting ceremony in Portland, Ore., according to the Brooklyn federal court complaint. Velentzas, meanwhile, has repeatedly called Osama bin Laden one of her heroes and used a photo of the al Qaeda leader holding an AK-47 as the background image on her cellphone, the complaint says. On last year's 13th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, she said she "hated living in the United States" and called military intervention against ISIS "tantamount to attacks on her own state," court papers say. She later "pulled a knife from her bra and demonstrated how to stab someone . . . if attacked," according to the complaint. "Velentzas added, 'Why can't we be some real bad bitches?' and stated that people needed to refer to them as "citizens of the Islamic State." During a series of conversations with the undercover officer, the women allegedly discussed previous domestic terror plots, including the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing and the failed car bombing of Times Square in 2010. Siddiqui also told the undercover that Velentzas "has been obsessed with pressure cookers since the Boston Marathon attacks in 2013 and often makes comments about pressure cookers," which were used to make the Boston bombs. A day after the Dec. 20 murders of NYPD cops Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu, Velentzas discussed the shootings with the undercover. She later suggested that Ramos' funeral—which drew 25,000 cops from across the country—was an "attractive potential target," the complaint says. The women were held without bail pending their next court appearance on May 4. Nurse's aide 'pummeled' 80-year-old patient at home A nurse's aide allegedly pummeled an 80-year-old bedridden nursing home patient in Far Rockaway – causing widespread injuries that landed the woman in a hospital, the attorney general announced Thursday. Marie Jeanty, 59, who lives in the neighborhood, told the woman at the West Lawrence Care Center on Aug. 15, 2014, to move so she could change her clothing and bedding – but then allegedly pushed her, punched her in the arm and shoulder and slammed her face into the railing, authorities said. The woman was taken to St. John's Episcopal Hospital with a black eye and significant bruising and swelling to her arm and head. Jeanty, who no longer works at the facility at 1410 Seagirt Boulevard, was charged with felony  second-degree assault; second-degree endangering the welfare of a vulnerable elderly person, or an incompetent or physically disabled person; and willful violation of health laws, a misdemeanor. Jeanty turned herself Thursday morning at the 101st Precinct, where she was startled by the media and tried to hide as she walked alone. "Why did you put me on the TV?" she asked two detectives who waited for her. "No, we didn't," one of them told her. "We got to put this on (cuffs) and then bring you inside." Jeanty – clad in a black leather jacket, black-and-yellow skirt and wearing knee-high boots – began  making humming noises while being cuffed. "You'll be OK, you'll be OK," the detective said. She then held her head down, walked inside the station and uttered: "Jesus." Michael Matera, the woman's attorney, defended his client just before her arraignment at Queens Criminal Court Thursday, where she pleaded not guilty. "Obviously what's being depicted from just looking at these charges looks like a serious crime and the allegations are serious but I think there is an absolute defense and the evidence is going to show at the end of the day that my client absolutely did not do what she is being accused of," he said. If convicted on the top count, Jeanty faces up to seven years in state prison. "When New Yorkers place those who mean the most to them in a nursing home, they should have confidence that their loved ones are not in danger of severe physical abuse," Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman said in a statement. "My office will bring criminal charges against nurses who violate the trust of the residents in their care and their family members." Brass knuckles found on woman who beat husband's prenup: cops First, a Long Island woman scored a legal knockout against her ex-husband. And now, two years later, she's been busted for trying to fly with a set of brass knuckles, police say. Elizabeth Petrakis, 41, who won a ground-breaking divorce settlement two years ago despite having had a prenup with her multimillionaire former husband, was busted at Kennedy Airport at 8:40 a.m. Thursday when cops spotted the scary weapon in her carry-on baggage, Port Authority cops say. Petrakis, of Old Brookville, was traveling at Terminal 5 on a Jet Blue flight to Florida with her two teenaged sons when the weapon was spotted by a TSA screener during routine screening, said Joseph Pentangelo, a PAPD spokesman. Her two sons continued on their scheduled flight without her to meet their waiting grandfather while Petrakis was scheduled to catch a later flight, a law enforcement source said. It was unclear why she was carrying the item, but it got her a desk appearance ticket for criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree and a future court date at Queens Criminal Court. Petrakis earned headlines after a February 2013 ruling by a Brooklyn appellate court that upheld a ruling that her prenuptial agreement between her and her wealthy ex, Peter, 43, deserved to be thrown out. Her former spouse, a tycoon worth between $20 million and $30 million, had presented her with the prenup three months before their 1998 wedding that stipulated that she was guaranteed $25,000 for every year the couple was married. In return, the prenup stipulated that all assets acquired during their marriage would remain her husband's in the event of a divorce. Her divorce lawyer, Dennis D'Antonio, insisted that her husband had promised to put their home under both their names and to rip up the prenup after they had two children — and although they had twin sons and a daughter, he never kept those promises. "It's fraud when someone lies to you, or tricks you into doing something on the basis of a lie, that you wouldn't have otherwise done," D'Antonio said at the time. "That was the grounds for challenging it [the prenup]." Famed graffiti artist 'COST' charged with vandalism One of the city's most prolific, and notorious, graffiti artists was in Manhattan Criminal Court on Wednesday to face vandalism raps. Adam Cole, better known by his tagger name "COST" and whose heyday was in the 1990s, kept trying to dodge a Post shutterbug in court, hiding behind his lawyer and bowing his head, but was unsuccessful. With his tags everywhere in the 1990s, the graffiti artist, 45, lay low for 16 years until he re-emerged in 2014. The surprisingly nebbishy-looking vandal was busted Oct. 5 when a cop caught him red-handed on West 13th Street. Cole was holding a large paintbrush with adhesive on it used to affix posters and graffiti, a court complaint states. The officer showed Cole a picture of his COST handiwork—to which the street artist allegedly replied proudly, "You know my graffiti," court papers show. The Queens native has allegedly plastered his posters all over Manhattan, including on a Federal Express building on Leroy Street, a deli on Eighth Avenue and on scaffolding, the court complaint states. The last time the graffiti vandal's picture was published was in 1995, after he was busted for tagging a mailbox, and even to law enforcement, his face has often been an unknown. A judge estimated he had caused millions of dollars in damage. He faces criminal mischief, graffiti and other charges. His defense lawyer, Stacey Richman, declined to comment. Building owner might face manslaughter charge in NYC blast Authorities are building a criminal case against the owner of the East Village building that blew up last week and left two people dead when it collapsed, sources told The Post Wednesday. An investigation into possible illegal plumbing work to supply the apartments in 121 Second Ave. with gas from a building next door has expanded to include landlord Maria Hrynenko, law enforcement sources said. Possible charges include second-degree manslaughter and reckless endangerment, the sources said. Hrynenko inherited both 121 Second Ave. and 119 Second Ave. from her late husband, Michael, who also ran the neighborhood's 24-hour Kiev diner before his death in 2004. Meanwhile, City Hall said DNA testing confirmed that the second body pulled from the building's rubble was that of Moises Locon, 27, the Sushi Park busboy missing since Thursday's explosion and fire. Moises comes from a family of nine in Guatemala. He was described as a hard worker who was planning to move back home and marry his childhood sweetheart, Susana Matzar. The body of Nicholas Figueroa, 23, of East Harlem, who was at Sushi Park on a date, was also recovered Sunday and was identified by family members shortly after the grim discoveries. The "cause and manner" of both men's deaths remain under investigation by the Medical Examiner's Office, City Hall said. Cuomo hails budget accord, touts teacher accountability Gov. Cuomo took a victory lap Wednesday following the bloodiest budget battle of his five-year tenure, claiming the Legislature's approval of new teacher-accountability measures will be one of his "greatest legacies." The governor also hailed changes to the ethics law—requiring legislators who practice law to provide greater disclosure about their clients and outside income—as "transformative." "We want to know who is paying you. It is dramatic turn," Cuomo said on an Albany radio show. On both issues, an ebullient Cuomo dismissed critics of the hard-fought changes and even took a veiled shot at state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a fellow Democrat who on Monday slammed the governor's ethics reforms as merely "tinkering around the edges." Schneiderman had proposed more sweeping reforms. Cuomo pointed out that from 2008 to 2010—when Schneiderman was a state senator—Democrats who controlled both houses of the Legislature failed to deliver tougher ethics rules. "Why didn't they do it when they controlled the entire state government,?" Cuomo asked on WCNY's "Capitol Pressroom." Schneiderman declined to comment, but during a recent speech, conceded he was wrong back then for extolling "incremental" changes. As for education, Cuomo's new teacher-accountability system weakens the role of school districts and teachers unions in devising evaluation plans. The law also makes it easier to fire incompetent teachers. In addition, teachers would be graded in part by outside observers and students' performance on state tests would count more heavily in their evaluations. "This is going to be one of the greatest legacies for me and this state when all is said and done," said Cuomo, who withstood weeks of protests fueled by teachers' unions and other anti-testing critics. Several Assembly Democrats denounced the changes before grudgingly voting for them. After complaining about "attacks on teachers," Bronx Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz literally held his nose with one hand as he voted "aye." City credits unions for $108 million in health-care savings The city tossed 14,000 ineligible recipients from its health-care rolls this year—and it is crediting municipal unions with the $108 million in savings, a top city official said Wednesday. And that's just for starters. The unions are also going to cash in when health-care premiums, forecast to jump by 9 percent, go up by only 2.9 percent. That'll save the city $17 million this year and $335 million next year—all of which will go on the unions' side of the ledger to meet their obligation to save $3.4 billion in health-care costs over four years as part of last year's contract settlements. Bob Linn, the city's labor commissioner, said that was only fair because the unions helped achieve the savings. "In a very real sense, I believe everything we've done required a consensus with the workforce leadership," he testified at a City Council hearing. Budget watchdogs weren't buying that explanation, especially since union members are in for bonuses if the savings exceed $3.4 billion. "Savings that would have normally been reserved for general budget needs—such as funding libraries—and are attributable to a national slowdown in health-care costs, are now being credited to the health savings agreement," said Citizens Budget Commission analyst Maria Doulis. 