Reti: Let's start by talking about your early life. Where were you born? Omosupe: I was born in 1951 on a plantation in Yazoo County, Mississippi. So it was a very long journey from sharecropping and poverty, to a Ph.D. from the University of California, Santa Cruz. I came from a family that valued education; however it did not have a lot of access. Since I'm African American, we can figure out numerous reasons as to why there was no access. My mother was only able to achieve a sixth grade education because she had to work in the fields chopping cotton, helping to support the family before she was of age to go to the fields. She was the oldest daughter, the oldest child, so it naturally fell to her to be the child care provider while the adults were out working. As she came of age, and the other children were growing up right behind her, then there was another child who could step in and do the child care responsibilities during the field time. My mother always impressed upon us the importance of education. She said, 'If you have an education, it is something that they (meaning the white power structure, the white people) would not be able to take away from you, and it would definitely improve your chances.' At least that certainly is what we all believe. Here in the United States we are sold that dream: get an education and work hard and you can be anyone you want to be. You don't have to spend your life impoverished. Of course we find that that's not wholly true. I was attending a segregated high school in Yazoo County, Mississippi. I was born and raised in the South. Even though my dad joined the army when he was eighteen, we never got out of the situation that we were in, in terms of being impoverished, though we were not as impoverished as many. Still, the army did promise an opportunity, an advantage, but my father, for whatever reasons, never got an FHA loan to purchase a home for our family. I realized through some of my own research and reading that he wasn't the only black soldier that fell into that situation, because the way the VA, FHA and those other federally funded institutions worked was that even though black men qualified, if they hadn't been dishonorably discharged, for whatever real and some trumped-up reasons that there were, that would immediately cancel them out in terms of qualifying for VA and FHA and all of those other things. But many black men did not have an opportunity, because these organizations worked in collusion with community, county, and state governments who blocked access to people who deserved it. There's really good research done by Karen Brodkin on how Jews became white. She talks at great length about VA, FHA and all these other organizations who were supposed to be there to help and to give to military men what they deserved as part of the promised package of service. I know I digress, but it all makes sense. Lyndon Baines Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act in 1964, [when] I was fourteen years old, and that cracked the door for me. Scouts from various private universities and private schools were looking in counties and states at students who were promising. These scouts went out and searched for students through the counseling divisions of various high schools. They found me. I was recommended through my counseling department from N.D. Taylor High School for one of these academic summer programs that focused on math, English, and science. I was recommended to Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Massachusetts. I went, and while I was there I did really well, so I was offered a scholarship to Mount Greylock Regional High School in Williamstown, Massachusetts, right near Williams College. I lived with a host family that was white. They were very generous and kind people who were very sensitive to issues of racism and discrimination and the subtleties of how these institutions worked. I graduated from Mount Greylock Regional High School in 1969. I was eighteen years old. I went back to Mount Holyoke's summer program that senior summer. It operated very much like Summer Bridge or Special Programs does [at] UCSC. I did well. I had already been accepted in early decision to Mount Holyoke, provided I did well my senior year, and I did well in the summer program after graduation, which I did. So I went there as a freshperson. I did one and a half years at Mount Holyoke College. I felt very displaced, very alienated, and very confused. So I left there, and I got married over that following summer. I married a man, and had three children. Nine years later I was a re-entry woman at the age of twenty-nine. I left the marriage; I had the babies; I was a single mom. The youngest child was nine months old. The middle child was four; the oldest child was six. We caught a Greyhound bus from Birmingham, Alabama, in 1980 and went to Colorado where my family lived by then. That was my dad's last duty station, Colorado Springs, Colorado. I re-entered at the University of Colorado in Colorado Springs, which is the extension of Boulder University. I went there from 1980 until 1985. I graduated with distinction in English literature and applied to UC Santa Cruz. It was my first choice of three colleges that I applied to for graduate work. I got accepted. I came to Santa Cruz in 1985. On August 18 I arrived in this town with a 9 x 12 trailer, a 1967 Ford station wagon. That trailer had everything we owned in it. At the time I was in a relationship with a man again, Larry Johnson, who helped me to move here and to get my house and everything situated. Then he went away and I still had the children. That was how I got here to UC Santa Cruz. Claire Braz-Valentine advocated heartily for me when I applied. I didn't know this until years later, when I had a conversation with her regarding my acceptance into the graduate program. She told me that there were stacks of applications, because at that time they accepted only twelve people into the American literature graduate program. My application was among these piles and stacks. She felt very strongly that I would be a very good candidate for the graduate program. She said, 'Look at all of these things that you need to consider. Aside from the fact that she does have good grades, she is a single mom; she's an African-American woman; she has raised these children; she has worked and continued to have good grades. She deserves to be here.' She said several times when the committee had brushed my application aside she would pick it up and put it back at the center of the table, back on the nearest stack and say, 'No, we have to look at this.' Reti: She was a department assistant. It's very interesting that she could play that role. She's an amazing teacher and writer as well. Omosupe: Yes, she was always so kind to me from the time that I arrived. I didn't know any of this story. My kids and I were living in our car because I didn't know that the rents were so exorbitant. I didn't know that I needed to apply for Family Student Housing. I had an impression that I could pretty much make my way the way that I had done in Colorado Springs. I had housing because I had a section 8. So I was going to school, and still had state or federal support to help me to maintain my family while I was studying so that I didn't have to rely on assistance. I thought I could have found a place near the school, and close enough so the children would be able to get back and forth to their elementary school or junior high, and be able to take care of my business. It wasn't like that though. It was not like that. We ended up living in our car and being harassed by the police because you're not supposed to park. We didn't know that either. Reti: Welcome to Santa Cruz. Omosupe: That was almost sixteen years ago. Now the terrorizing against the homeless has definitely escalated. They'd knock on the car window. 'You can't park here. You have to get up. You have to leave.' So we'd just drive around. At first I was able to amuse the children by saying we were on a long camping trip. But pretty soon they got tired. 'I want to go home. Where is home? I'm tired of barbecuing dinner every day.' You know kids. It's fun for a little while, but' It was Claire Braz-Valentine again who' I called and talked to her and told her my situation. She began to petition whoever she needed to see if I could get some funds early, and to get me into Family Student Housing. I did get into Family Student Housing, and she got some funds for me and I was able to rent on Beach Street. They offered deals at that time. In Beach Flats at the hotel over there' It was something like, when you register for a week you get two days for free. It was a campaign strategy to get people to rent rooms. So we rented a cottage and stayed there for awhile. I had to go back again and ask welfare for assistance because we were running out of everything. It's hard with kids. It's hard without kids, but it's way harder with kids. So that's part of how I got here. Reti: What attracted you to UC Santa Cruz in particular? Omosupe: I was looking for a college that had a strong reputation for American literature and freedom in study. What do I mean by that? Meaning that, yes, you always have a program and a curriculum to follow, but they're not so rigid that they lock you in. You can expand what that major means, or recreate it if you need to, just as long as you followed the principal guidelines of what was expected of you. And of course a university that gave Ph.D.'s that had a strong reputation. I was also looking to study with teachers who were of African-American descent, in this kind of a setting. I saw a brochure that they sent to me. It had Nate Mackey on it. I thought, this is great. I assumed that if there was one black person there were others. But I made a wrong assumption, which is something my mother would always warn me about when I was growing up. Don't assume. I finally think I have internalized that lesson. But there wasn't a whole bunch. There was just Nate Mackey. But that was one thing that attracted me. And the brochure made promises about the beauty of the town. You got the impression that the beauty was not only in the landscape but possibly in the people who lived here. So it was a combination of naivet', idealism, and really believing what I saw on the brochure and what was offered. Mostly the way I heard about UC Santa Cruz was, when I took my Graduate Record Exams there was a little box that said, if you are a minority you can become a part of the minority lottery pool. Which meant that if you marked this box, your name and whatever other pertinent information would be distributed to all of these colleges and universities that were a part of this lottery. They would send you information, applications if you would like, for admission, for financial aid. That way also, it allowed you to become aware of what is out there in the academy. So that's what I did. I got a plethora of information from everywhere. Colleges inviting me to apply. So that's how I heard about UC Santa Cruz, and why I applied. Reti: Had you heard anything about UCSC or Santa Cruz having a LGBT community? Omosupe: No, because I wasn't out yet. I didn't come out until I was thirty-three years old and I was here at UC Santa Cruz. I had been very aware, since I was ten years old, that I was different, and that was I attracted to women, to girls. The first attractions I didn't understand as my wanting to be intimate with these women, but just understanding that I liked them so much, so much more than I could express, and I didn't mind if we hugged or whatever. My first experience with a girl was when I was ten years old. However, I think that all children are interested in discovering and exploring about sex and sexuality. Most of the time we are taught that it is something nasty that we have to feel ashamed of and hide. We hear about it on the schoolyard mostly, or adults cautioning us not to do certain things because it's bad. You know the kinds of reasons they give. I didn't even know that there was such a term as lesbian. I knew very early though, that if girls liked girls in that way, and boys liked boys in that way, that there was something wrong with you. I became very closeted. I didn't want anybody to know that I was feeling this way. So one side of my mind allowed me to suppress, but the other part of my mind was always thinking about it. 'Why is this bad? I really like Annie.' I had girlfriends. We would play around and be intimate every time that we were together. But we never talked about it and we never exposed ourselves, because we were afraid. It's funny how you know things but you don't talk about it. There was an agreement among us not to talk about it. But whenever we got a chance we would be together. It was very strange, but that's probably very common. Not to make a comparison in this way, to say that they are equal. However, it is very similar' I was a child who was a survivor of incest. I knew that my uncle did that to me, but I couldn't approach my uncle or talk to him and say that that was bad. But whenever he got a chance, he was pawing on me. You know what I mean? You don't talk about it, but it's happening. So it was like that in terms of it being so closeted. The difference being that I wanted to be with those girlfriends. So when I came out, I really came out. I came out of that closet when I was thirty-three years old. I gave testimony. I'd say: 'I'm a gay woman; I'm a lesbian,' to anybody. Men who came on to me''I'm not interested. I like women.' Which was pretty bold, when I think about it, considering how there's so much homophobia and violence connected to it. That is, I guess, a part of being naive sometimes. And I didn't learn about the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgendered Center until I was way into my graduate studies. It was the early-1990s, I guess, before I knew about it. Reti: When you came here were there other lesbians of color who were support for you? Omosupe: I had met an African-American woman named Madonna, in Nate Mackey's Harlem Renaissance Literature class, a beautiful black woman. I felt very, very attracted to her. I still couldn't quite figure out, what is going on here? We started having conversations. I realized that not only was I attracted to her, but I was attracted to several other women I had met. It was through her that I started to dialogue about being gay, because she was definitely a lesbian and had been out since she was probably an early teenager. She was with a partner whom she had been with for at least four years when I met her. She started to talk to me, and I talked to her, and she introduced me to other lesbians. So I met other lesbians of color who were [mostly] Latina in the beginning. And then I met people in Oakland, because Madonna was from the Oakland area, at least she had lived there and knew people. Besides that, since she was a lesbian, she already had connections with the lesbian communities. So she would introduce me to people or I'd meet somebody at a party. Then I'd end up meeting people who lived in Oakland or in San Francisco. I got to know lesbians. But I didn't meet many African-American lesbians over here in Santa Cruz. I met most of them in Oakland, going to parties. For a long time, aside from her, I wasn't sure if there was another African-American lesbian around. The African-American lesbians were probably not very many at UC at that time, or we hadn't crossed paths, or something like that. But as I became more aware and embraced my own lesbianism, more graduate students' I remember a few graduate students who were African-American lesbians came to the program during the latter part of my engagement in graduate studies. So I got to know some then. What I did notice is that it was really difficult to connect with white lesbians. I found that it was difficult because I wasn't a single woman. I was a single mom. It's kind of like that in the straight world too, that if you are a woman with children it's difficult to form romance relationships and to work at developing something that is more long-term. And that's okay, people do get to make their own choices. But I felt really alienated sometimes. I also felt that racism and classism were issues that weren't talked about, and that prevented connections. Not just with me, but talking to other lesbians of color, they had some of the very same feelings or analyses regarding race and class. But I think that it didn't negatively affect me in that I began to negatively judge my own lesbianism. It was still okay with me that I was a lesbian. If I was going to have to be a lesbian by myself, well, so be it. I felt also very positive that there were other women out there who had their own struggles with race, and they had maybe come to some insights, wouldn't have the same barriers. So I was hopeful, because the world is very large and the community is not this little community. The community is very large. So I started to step out more, and my children were growing and getting more mature and independent, so it was easier for me to be able to meet people. Because my goal wasn't just to find a lover, or a mate, however wonderful it would have been. It's also wanting some validation, because validation is very much an assurance that you're not crazy. You're okay. That's what I was looking for. Eventually, I did start to have that. But it was real hard in the beginning. Reti: Were there faculty who were your mentors? Omosupe: I definitely consider Bettina Aptheker one of my mentors. I highly appreciate and respect her for all the work that she does, that she has done, how she embraces all of us, whether we are lesbian or not. She was so present, and so aware of issues that I was confronting. I definitely felt that there was space to talk with her about those things, not only in office hours, but also I was her teaching assistant for a number of years. Also, in our group meetings and clusters there was always space for talk. She would always cover issues regarding race, class, and gender in her lectures that were so important and needed to be looked at. She would address to feminists the necessity of expanding the definition of feminism. It's not just a focus on gender and class. Race has to be at the center of the discussion, because these issues confront all of us. So I appreciated her a lot. I also got encouragement from Nate Mackey. I had problems with different instructors from time to time. Not extreme, but I did run into some issues. But I would say that Bettina Aptheker and Nate Mackey were two people whom I got support from that inspired me. Then when I was working on my dissertation, Angela Davis was absolutely the most supportive and profound person. She was really there for me and helped me to get through this process, to get done. She came in the middle-1990s. I had been advanced to candidacy in 1990, and I got a job at Cabrillo College in 1992. I was teaching a full load, plus working on the dissertation, and I finally got it done in 1997. It's been a long haul. This advanced degree, higher education has cost me a great deal, not only in terms of money, in having to pay back student loans. In terms of my children and my family, it has also cost me a great deal. Living at the University, my family being scapegoated. It was difficult. But I got through. The children are still alive, blessed be. But it was hard. Reti: You wrote a poem to Lucille Clifton. Omosupe: Yes. Claire Braz-Valentine said to me when we first met, 'There is a woman, a poet, whom you absolutely must meet. Her name is Lucille Clifton. Do you know of her? Do you know of her work?' I said, 'No, I don't.' She turned me on to Lucille's work, and then she introduced us. Lucille was a fantastic mentor for me. I also worked with her as a teaching assistant for her poetry classes. I worked for her for three quarters. We did at least three readings together. At the last reading we did together she said, 'Ekua. I'm not worried about you no more. You be a poet.' I said, 'Oh, thank you, Lucille.' So that is why I wrote that poem to Lucille in my book Legacy. Reti: What about staff who were mentors? Omosupe: Jacquelyn Marie in the library. She's the only one, really, whom I absolutely know. I called upon her many times. I'd go to the library and she was always very helpful. There are other women there but I don't know their names. I talked to her a lot. We developed a relationship. But I have to say that every time I went to the library, whoever was there was always very kind and helpful. I didn't have any misgivings about them. They were all good. But she was absolutely the best. She always followed through. She would always let me know if something came in that I might be interested in because of my work. It was great. I loved her. I respect her a great deal. Reti: What about the classes you were taking in the program? What was that like for you? Omosupe: Generally I had good success in my classes. However I took a year-long seminar with Forrest Robinson and Susan Gillman in American literature. They team-taught the course. I remember once we were engaged in a long, old argument about what is American literature, who are American writers, of course relying on mostly the white forefathers who are the American writers. There was a young man in the program who had recently come. His name was Russ. Russ and I had volunteered to do a presentation on a writer whose name I don't remember right now. Russ met with me before class to check in and see if we were somewhat synchronized, or more than that: 'These are things that I'm thinking of. Do you think that they are appropriate?' I said, 'Absolutely. And these are the things I'm thinking of, and this is what I am going to talk about so it's going to be nice.' So we go to class, and the structure is that presenters have five or seven minutes each, because this is a three-hour seminar, and not only do we have presenters, but we also have work that we have to cover through discussion. Russ opts to give his presentation first. So he went first and he got the utmost respect, attention. Then my turn came, and Forrest Robinson interrupted me three times because he was in disagreement with things that I was saying. I was challenging this representation of the American writer. They are not all white. We do have Frederick Douglass. We have Anna Julia Cooper. So the first time he interrupted me I said, 'Excuse me. I'm not done yet. I have a few more points to make.' Then I made another point. Interruption. The third time I said, 'Excuse me. What do you want? Do you want me to regurgitate to you what all of the other critics have already said? Do you want me to give you my earnest, critical, analytical, feedback? Or do you want to do the presentation?' There was silence for a few moments. Then he said that the purpose of the presentation was to open the door for discussion. I said, 'I realize that, and that's what I am doing. However I have been interrupted several times. No one interrupted Russ. He had a chance to finish. Am I making so many points that are off- base? Am I wrong? I don't understand.' 'Well,' he said, 'Obviously we need to take a little distance here. So we're just going to go ahead and take our break. And then we'll come back.' Of course I felt very beaten up. And all of my white colleagues appeared not to have a problem with what was going on here. In fact, I feel pretty certain that they thought I probably was off-base, that I was personalizing, that I obviously missed a point. I did not come back to the second session of the class, because I was one of the speakers on a panel in Bettina Aptheker's Introduction to Feminism course. So I didn't go back, and I don't know what happened after I left. When I went back the following week they wanted to proceed with business as usual. No one even mentioned what had happened the time before. No one even commented on the fact that I did not show up for the second part of the session. Nobody cared, except for one woman, Christine Mergozzi, who was a foreign student. I had been her teaching assistant in Introduction to Feminism. We had developed a friendship. In her thickly accented voice Christine Mergozzi said, 'I wish to make a comment on how the class treated Ekua the last time we met.' You could hear a pin drop. Forrest Robinson said, 'Well, what is it? 'I think that you treated her in a very sexist, racist, and classist manner.' Then the class blew up. 'How dare you say that to us? No one in here is racist!' Then someone else spoke: 'I want to know what Ekua thinks.' I said, 'You treated me in a very racist, classist, and sexist manner. You did not allow me to finish my speaking. You interrupted. You acted as if obviously I was off-base. I don't feel that that was appropriate and it really hurt me, the way you treated me.' Well, there were people that thought I was off-base, that the things I wanted to talk about were not the things that were the feature, (Excuse me. It's part of the literature.) that I personalized too much. I said, 'Well, racism, classism, and sexism are very personal to me. You have the luxury, perhaps, of speaking on these issues only from an intellectual perspective. But I live them everyday. So it is personal. And for the comment regarding, I was being too subjective, excuse me, all interpretations are subjective, so it's not like that is such a brilliant insight.' People whom I thought were my friendly colleagues spoke up and said, 'I think we've spent too much time on this. I'd like to move on with the business of the day.' Then Ellen Hart spoke up and said, 'I understand perhaps your desire to move forward. However, we can't just drop this subject as if it doesn't matter. Because we're colleagues and we have to work together.' That was basically the end of that discussion. Susan Gillman' I can't remember if it was after this particular discussion or just before Forrest Robinson had us go to break in the previous meeting, but she was trying to make things nice by talking about the seduction of the literature. I said, 'Well, that is part of my point here. We have all been seduced into believing that these are the representative American writers, and they are not. They are in the mainstream. They are in the academy. They are when you talk about art and letters. But you are definitely dealing from the myopic perspective, that the best writers and the only writers are white writers, therefore they are the American writers. But that's not true.' Another time, maybe a week or so later, I spoke to Susan Gillman and she told me that I personalize. I said, well they just don't get it and they don't have to get it. Just so they don't prevent me from being able to move through this program and get my degree. Because that's what I'm after. And I knew that they had the power to do that. However, I must say that towards the end, in terms of being a reader and being on my dissertation committee, Susan Gillman was there and she did read my work. She did give me feedback. She did sign off on my dissertation. I have to say she is a person who towards the end really came through for me. But it was not easy. In my second year suddenly there wasn't enough financial aid for me. I have three kids and I live in Family Student Housing. I am a poor woman. I went to Marta Morello-Frosch, who is another person I must name as a support person for my second focus, which was Latin American literature. She was there for me. I went to Marta and I told her that I did not have enough money. I also told Claire. I said, 'They told me at Financial Aid to get a job at McDonald's to help support my family, because they did not have enough financial aid for me.' I said, 'Not only did that hurt me, it completely insulted me! I don't have time to work at McDonald's. I am a graduate student.' I also thought that it was very racist for whoever it was to say that to me. I told Marta and I told Claire, 'I feel as if they are trying to drive me out and drive me away. I don't want that to happen.' I said, 'Surely there is money. Nobody told me when I came here that financial aid was going to be an issue. Everybody knew that I have three children and I'm supporting them on my own.' I don't know what Marta and Claire did, but I know they acted in good faith on my behalf and got money for me. After that I never had another problem with my financial aid. They spoke up for me, and then I got a new financial aid representative, Liz Martin-Garcia. A wonderful woman. I have to say, she too was very, very instrumental in my having what I needed to get through. She took really good care to see to that. The testimony is that she does that for all students, that she is faithful and true, and really knows her job and what is available even when you don't know. She will find what you need. I love her. My heart swells just thinking about her and what she did. She was so beautiful and wonderful for me. Reti: Today is January 22, 2013 and this is Irene Reti. I'm here for my first oral history interview with Pedro Castillo. So, Pedro, let's start by talking about where you were born, and when, your early life. Castillo: Okay. I was born in 1942. I was born in Phoenix, Arizona. My parents are immigrants. It's a beautiful story about my parents, if I can talk about my parents for a couple of minutes. Reti: Yes, please. Castillo: They met in Phoenix. They were both working with their families. My father's family had moved from the state of Chihuahua in northern Mexico. They then went to El Paso, and then they were en route from El Paso to Los Angeles and two or three of the brothers stayed in Phoenix, one of whom was my father, and the other family members on my father's side went to Los Angeles. Now, my mother's family—and there were nine in my mother's family—half of them were born in the United States and half of them were born in Mexico. It depended where my grandfather and grandmother were working. Sometimes my grandmother would be up here working with my grandfather—and an aunt or uncle would be born in the U.S. At other times they were back in Mexico, so an aunt or uncle or my mother would be born in Mexico. So my mother was up here working and met my father, and there was a romance. They were going to get married. But in the fine tradition, the Mexican tradition, my mother wanted my father to ask my paternal grandfather for my mother's hand before they could get married. By that time, the family had returned to Mexico. So my mother went with the family and my father had to go by himself back to Mexico, in an area that he didn't know. And he went by train. And at that time-this is in the late thirties, early forties, the trains were very slow. I remember as a kid, when we went to visit relatives, it seemed to me like it would take days, maybe a week or ten days, to get from the border of Arizona and Mexico all the way down to Guadalajara. And then from there we would take a bus to go to this small community where my grandparents lived and had some property that they farmed. Reti: Was there a town there? Castillo: Yeah, the name of the town is El Fortín de Las Flores. It is halfway between Sahuayo, Michoacan and La Barca, Jalisco. It's in Michoacan but it's closer to Jalisco, it's closer to Guadalajara. So the bus ride from Guadalajara to El Fortín is about two hours, two and a half hours, to Sahuayo. And then from Sahuayo you had to take a local bus down to this little community, El Fortín. When I started going down there as a child I remember it had no sidewalks, everything was dirt, no electricity, there were outhouses. No running water— you had to go and get your water. So this was a community that my father took the train and then a couple of buses to get there, finally shows up, goes to my grandfather's house to ask for my mother's hand. And my grandfather said no. Reti: (gasps) Castillo: My mother is the oldest of nine children, a woman, the favorite, I suppose, of my grandfather, because she is the first, and then a woman. (laughs) So my dad hung around for about a week and came back. And the answer was still no. So he went back to Arizona. Then a week or so later, two weeks later, my mother, with some of girlfriends made up a story that she was going to spend a few days with a couple of girlfriends and stuff like that. That was a cover story. She got on the bus. She went to Sahuayo, got on another bus, went to Guadalajara; she took the train. She met my dad, my father, on the U.S. Mexico border, on the U.S. side. Then from there they took another bus to go to—the border town was Nogales, Arizona— from there you would take the train to Guadalajara and then it would continue to Mexico City. My father waited for her there and then they took the bus to Phoenix and they got married. This is in 1940, 1941, before the outbreak of World War II. In March of 1942 I came into this world. About six months later my grandfather was back in the U.S. working and he came to our house. Everything was forgiven and pardoned as soon as my mother brought the grandchild—that was me—the first grandchild in, you know, a beautiful baby and everything was forgiven. Reti: (laughs) Castillo: One of my cousins has been doing some family history. You would think that I would do it but maybe I'm too close to it. But one of my cousins, the youngest of one of my uncles, has been doing some family history. My paternal grandfather died in Phoenix, Arizona. He was hit by an automobile. It was a hit and run in 1945. So he died and he was buried and she found out which cemetery he was buried in. It's the same cemetery where my father is buried and my mother is buried. It's a Catholic cemetery in Phoenix, Arizona. In a number of communities where you have a large Mexican-origin population, in polite terms the Catholic cemetery was often the Mexican cemetery, but instead of saying "the Mexican cemetery," they would say "the Catholic cemetery," and that was a little bit nicer. But everybody knew Mexicans are buried there. So he's buried there. My grandmother passed away in Mexico, my maternal grandmother, and she's buried in Mexico. My paternal grandmother and grandfather—they passed away in Los Angeles and they're buried in Los Angeles. Of the nine children in my mother's family, I just have one uncle and two aunts that are alive. On my father's family, there were also nine children and there are two aunts and one uncle that are still alive, that all live in Los Angeles. They lived in Los Angeles. On my mother's side (real quickly), the uncle lives on the U.S-Mexico Border in Calexico near San Diego. One aunt lives in Los Angeles, and another aunt lives in Mexico, in Sahuayo. And she is the one who handles the land. My maternal grandfather was in the Mexican army in the 1920s and received some land in the 1930s when Lázaro Cárdenas became president and he begins to distribute the land. So he got some land in Michoacan. And that land went to my grandfather, and then when he passed away it went to my grandmother, and then when she passed away she gave a third to one uncle, a third to another uncle, and a third to an aunt. The two uncles have died but their children have the land and then my aunt has one third of the land. So she kind of is there in Mexico and makes sure that the land is worked and she gets the proceeds from whatever crop they harvest. So there is still that connection to that ejido that was distributed and given to my grandfather in the early 1930s, like '32, '33, when Cárdenas came to power. Because my mother's family were not from Michoacan. They were from Jalisco but the land was in Michoacan. So the family moved— after my father left the military, left the army, they then moved to Michoacan with this plot of land. This small community, El Fortín de Las Flores, now has a nice church, paved streets, running water, sewers, a central plaza. It's still a small, little town but it's surrounded by agriculture. It's an agricultural community. It's interesting because they used to grow—it used to be wheat—but now recently it's been more cash crops like strawberries. Strawberries are grown in Watsonville, or in Oxnard and Ventura [but in] the last twenty to twenty-five years the state of Michoacan [has also become] known for strawberries. So oftentimes the strawberries that are grown in Santa Cruz County and Ventura County compete in the world market with those that are grown in Michoacan. And some of the growers have even gone into Mexico, some of the Santa Cruz County growers have gone into Mexico. Reti: So they can do year-round strawberries. Castillo: So they can do year round. And have leased lands. Some of them have even tried to buy lands. At one time you could not buy land in Mexico. The land belongs to the state. But about twenty years ago one of the presidents changed that a bit. So now you can lease land; you can buy land—all you need to do is get a lawyer and you can buy it through a Mexican lawyer. There are some arrangements to kind of loosen up— That has been interesting because it went from kind of self-sufficient agriculture in Michoacan to more cash crops and strawberries. Strawberries from Michoacan are sold all over the world. Reti: There's a lot of money in strawberries. Castillo: There's a lot of money in strawberries. I remember once my wife and I were in Paris and there was an open-air market. We went in, and sure enough, there were Driscoll strawberries from Watsonville with the crates from Driscoll. (laughs) Reti: (laughs) Castillo: I said, wow, you're never that far from home. Reti: So when your parents came to Phoenix— Castillo: Yes. Reti: —what kind of work were they doing? Castillo: Well, my mother was working in agriculture. And at that time, before the cotton picker, they would pick cotton. That was one of the biggest crops in Phoenix, in Maricopa County and the surrounding area. My mother—her education was equivalent to maybe a third or fourth grade education, but it was in Mexican schools. She knew how to read and write in Spanish but she didn't go to schools in the U.S. My father—they moved up here to the United States at an early age. So he went to the public schools in Phoenix before my grandparents left and moved to Los Angeles. So he went to the public schools, so he could read and write in Spanish but he could also read and write in English. So he was more like a blue-collar worker. Eventually, he worked at a furniture store. He was a salesman, because he was bilingual and they catered to the Mexican-origin population. So he was a step up from being an agricultural worker. But he was still blue collar, manual labor. He delivered the furniture but he was also a salesman. He was a salesman who would go out to the smaller communities and sell furniture, primarily to Spanish-speaking people, who for some reason couldn't come into town or didn't want to come into town, or just bought furniture from this salesman. So my dad would do that and then he'd deliver their furniture. So he had a little higher level and higher income in Phoenix. There was the big house that my father's parents owned and then there was a small house. So we lived in the small house. And then when my grandparents moved to Los Angeles, we moved into the big house. We went to the public schools in Phoenix. But language was very important and Spanish was very important. We would use Spanish at home and then English at school. This was way before bilingual education. At home we would just always speak Spanish, especially because my mom—her English was very broken. The more we lived in the United States, the more we grew up, she got better with her English. But everything was done in Spanish—conversation at the home. So I grew up in a Spanish-language household and then went to school, where we used English. I just have one brother. He's younger than me, a couple of years younger. So there were just the two of us. Which is interesting, because both of my parents came from families of nine children, which does not count the miscarriages. But then my mother and father decided just to have two children. Reti: So when you were going back and forth between speaking Spanish at home and English at school—or, were you allowed to speak Spanish at school? Was that forbidden? Castillo: I don't remember anyone telling me, "You can't speak Spanish. You're in school." Some of my friends and colleagues, growing up they remember being told, "You can't speak Spanish," and being spanked or being with hit with a ruler on the knuckles or something like that. I don't ever remember being told that. But it was almost automatic. You were in school and you switched to English in the classroom. But I would speak Spanish in the playground, or when we were walking to school with my friends, or when we were just goofing around or doing something outside of the classroom, we would speak Spanish. Reti: Was the school integrated? Castillo: The elementary school was primarily Spanish surname. It was not until I went to the high school— We lived in what I guess would be called South Phoenix. South Phoenix was more Mexican origin; North Phoenix was more Anglo American; and West Phoenix was more Anglo American, but it was in a period of transition, becoming more Mexican. African Americans tended to live in South Phoenix. So I grew up in a neighborhood that was predominantly Mexican origin, but there were African Americans there. So that in high school, when I went to high school, it was an integrated high school. I started high school in 1956. This is right after Brown versus the Board of Education.3 So in my high school there were about a third Mexican origin; a third African Americans; and a third whites. Very few Asians, but there were some Asians as well. That was not the case in elementary school. Kindergarten through eighth grade was elementary school. And then ninth grade to twelfth grade was high school. There was no middle school—like today we have middle school that's seventh, eighth, ninth—there was no middle school. So from eighth grade, you'd then go on to high school. The high school was very integrated: a third, a third, a third. I was involved in clubs, athletic events, and other extracurricular— I knew African Americans and they were our neighbors. I always wondered why, because there was a high school there, which was Carver High School and we used to walk by there before I went to high school (because I went to high school in '56), but in the early, middle-fifties, where African Americans used to go. But public education was segregated until Brown versus the Board of Education in 1954, so there were African American schools in Phoenix, which is kind of weird because when I think of segregated schools for African Americans it's like, well, that's in the South. Reti: Right. That's the stereotype.  Castillo: Or maybe Texas, which I think of as the South. But that's another issue. Some people say, "No, that's the Southwest." But anyway, it's South. (laughs) But anyway, in Phoenix, Arizona there was an African American high school and some of the people that I knew went there. I had no idea about Brown versus Board of Education. When I got to high school in '56, there were African Americans there. And I wondered, what ever happened to that high school? It just closed down and became—they used it for special education, or I forgot exactly what they used it for. Also, growing up in Phoenix, there was an Indian school, special schools for Native Americans. That was more on the north side of town. It still is there. It's more like an enrichment school now. It's a charter school or something like that. So there were very few, if any, Native Americans in my high school, because they went to the—it was called the Phoenix Indian School. It was for Native Americans, not just from the surrounding Phoenix area, but they came from throughout the state. It was like a boarding school, elementary and high school. And I don't know how they were selected to go there, to the Indian school. So elementary was basically—I would say it was about 70 percent Mexican- origin, with some whites, some Asians. Now that I'm reflecting, there were no African Americans in my earlier years. It was only as I was finishing up elementary school (this is after Brown versus the Board of Education) maybe a year when I saw some African Americans. Because by 1956, the Carver High School had been closed down. And since most of the African Americans lived in South Phoenix, they went to Phoenix Union. Then because the population was really increasing in number of school-age population, they established another high school in South Phoenix, which was even further south than where I lived, where there were more African Americans. So the two schools—Phoenix Union High School, which was the school that I went to, and the other school, which was South Mountain High School, had a large percentage of African Americans. And as a result of that, athletically they did well; they did very well. They were integrated into the student body, into various classes, into athletics, into various clubs. And there were never any issues of—for example, our basketball team had African Americans playing those schools from the north side that had no African Americans. Because some places, like in the South, they just wouldn't do that. They wouldn't play each other. Reti: You'd have to have your own league. Castillo: They had their league that was whites only. In Phoenix it was— Reti: What about in terms of curriculum, in school. Did you study any history of Mexican Americans? When you took history, was it all-white history, or— Castillo: I started taking history and I became much more interested in history— Many of my friends, because there was the vocational, technical part of Phoenix Union High School—many of my friends took vocational, technical, where they did woodworking. They did auto mechanics. They did electrical work, plumbing, that kind of stuff. For some reason, and I don't know why, I don't know if it was consciously—I just wasn't attracted to that. It really is a case today, when it comes to technology, fifties and sixties technology as well as twenty-first century technology, I'm all thumbs. I mean, if something is wrong with the car, I take it to a mechanic. I know where to put gas and drive, but that's about it. And I'm probably not that good of a driver. (laughs) Reti: (laughs) Castillo: If something happens with the plumbing at our place, I call the plumber. I know they're expensive but if I tried to do something I probably would make it a big disaster. So I was attracted to college prep, taking English and history. I took—at that time it was Western civilization. Now today it's world history. It's changed a lot. And the focus was on the West, Western civilization, with maybe just a real quick run- through of Latin American civilization and Asian civilizations. But it primarily was Western civ. So I did that and that was my sophomore year. And then U.S. history in my junior year in high school. Then I started getting more and more interested [in] U.S. history—I mean it was history from George Washington to Eisenhower, but it was more political, economic history. There was no talk of African Americans. except slavery and abolitionism. After Reconstruction, African Americans just disappeared, you didn't see them. There was no talk of women, just nothing. Nothing. And there was clearly no talk of Mexican Americans, Latinos, except the U.S.-Mexico War. But that was a couple of pages in the 1840s: the U.S. won; Mexico lost. And then you move on to the 1850s, the Civil War. But I really liked the teacher. He was very good. And then that same teacher, my high school teacher, did a class, it was an elective on the history of Arizona. My high school teacher was single, a single guy, had a master's, which you didn't need to teach high school, but he had a master's. And he was a published historian. I later found out after I took the class on Arizona history—I just kept up with him—I found out that he had published a couple of books, more traditional biographies, or the history of a city or something like that. But he was a high school teacher who published some very good histories himself. So I became interested in that. But there was nothing on Mexican Americans, or Latinos, or Spanish. I mean, even when we did Western civilization, the focus was on Western Europe. Reti: Were you conscious of that [omission] at the time? Castillo: Kind of. I think I was a little bit conscious of it. Here I'm growing up; we speak Spanish at home. I know I'm Mexican. All my friends are Mexican. My parents, my brother is Mexican; all my friends are. You know, there were always the celebrations of the Cinco de Mayo, the 16th of September, the queens and the parades and the parties. We followed baseball; my father really liked baseball. And at that time in Phoenix, the late forties but into the 1950s, there was the old—what was it called—it was something like the Pacific Coast or the Southwest Mexican leagues. These were minor leagues, maybe not even the highest level of minor leagues, maybe in the middle. I think the highest level is like AAA. This might have been AA or A. But the teams came from Phoenix, from Tucson, from El Paso, from San Antonio. And some of them were border communities like El Paso, and San Antonio [which has] a large Mexican population. So they had Mexicans on their teams in the minor leagues. Very few ever made it to the major leagues, maybe one or two. And then they would also play some teams from Northern Mexican cities. So the Arizona Texas Mexico League, or something like that. So I kind of got the sense that there were Mexicans and they were doing stuff, and they're playing baseball. But the big leagues—which I also liked to follow—the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Yankees. So I kind of had the sense that—I'm taking these classes—well, in Western civ it was Western Europe; in U.S. history it was beginning with the Pilgrims and George Washington and moving up finally to the most recent president, and doing the wars—the traditional U.S. history. But I enjoyed it. Even before this, when I was in the seventh or eighth grade, I used to love to go to the library. The school had a library. And they had a whole series of biographies for middle- school kids, for sixth to eighth grade, that I started reading. I think I read all of them. They were like one hundred pages, big print—on Thomas Jefferson, on George Washington, on World War II—primarily the famous men, white men's history. But I devoured it. I really liked it. I would go to the library and she'd say, "No, Pedro—" Well, no, I wasn't Pedro. One other thing that happened. My birth certificate says Pedro. My parents called me Pedro at home. My brother called me Pedro. But when I went to school, it became Peter. Reti: Ay. Castillo: So when I was at school, I was Peter, and that's what the teachers called me. I went home, my parents called me Pedro. It didn't develop any—I mean, I was able to internalize stuff. I'm Pedro at home. I'm Peter over there. So the librarian told me, "No, Peter. You've read all of them. There's none left." And there was a series of them, like thirty books: you know, Thomas A. Edison, who was part Latino. It's Thomas Alva Edison. Back in his family, there was a grandfather who was Latino, Mexican. Reti: I didn't know that. Castillo: In this book it said nothing about that, just when he grew up and where, and all the inventions that Thomas A. Edison did and the experiments. So I read them all and I really got interested in history. And I got to high school and did Western civ in the sophomore year, U.S. history, which is required. And then my senior year, it's civics and government for one semester and then economics for a second semester. But they had this elective, this semester class on Arizona history that, as I said, I took. Vanderscoff: Now, what impressions did you have of your father growing up? What sense did you have of his expectations for you? Daly: He was a salesman and a decorator. He decorated windows for a high- level women's shoe store on Union Square, the prestigious area of shopping in those days in San Francisco. And he was somewhat frustrated, because I think he wanted his own store. His father had had his own store in Chico, California. And that's where my father was born, I think in 1898. And so I think my Dad wanted his own store. My grandmother didn't support him very much, and it frustrated him. So I got that impression. Also, he tended to drink liquor a little bit more than he should have. That impression came to me as I moved into my teens. Vanderscoff: And growing up, what did you think—did he want you to follow him in that business, or did he want a different path for you? Daly: No. He used to say that he wanted me to go over to UC Berkeley. Which is interesting, because at the time he didn't have the money. Now, we were coming  out of the Depression, and I was living with my father. By this point, my parents had divorced. So I was living with my father and his mother, and then his sister. And she had one son. Her husband was a merchant marine man. He was gone most of the time. We were living on 16th avenue in San Francisco. And he would talk in terms of, "Well, I want you to go to UC Berkeley." In those days you just called it 'UC.' The other campuses either weren't developed or you didn't think of them. And I thought, "Well, that's a nice ambition." But he didn't have the money to send me to UC.2 Vanderscoff: Now what about your mother? What did she do? Daly: Well, she was a homemaker. Attractive woman, vivacious—and I say that objectively. And she ended up working with her sister, who had her own dental X-ray laboratory, downtown San Francisco in the Flood building, which is on the corner of Powell and Market. So she learned dental X-ray from her sister, which was a great opportunity for her. So she lived alone, and she never remarried. (phone rings; recorder is switched off; record resumes after phone call) Vanderscoff: Now, what sense did you have of your mother's expectations for you? Daly: Well, in those days it wasn't like today, where a child almost from any family is expected to go on to some university training. In those days you got out of high school and then you went to work. Only a small percentage of people  went to university. I'd say not much more than fifteen or twenty percent. And these were the people from families with some wealth, or with more higher education. Vanderscoff: Now, was your family—either your parents or your extended family—a supporter of the idea of public service, of civic involvement? Daly: Well again, that wasn't discussed really. My dad was interested in politics. He was a Democrat. But he never got involved. Again, it was such a contrast to what it's like today. Up until this recession we're in right now, [thru the sixties to 2007], everybody was living very well, and had time to devote to extracurricular [activities] beyond work. We're seeing kind of a revert back to what it was like in the thirties and forties in San Francisco. People were struggling to make a living and pay the bills. So they weren't looking around for public service. And they weren't expecting it from their kids. Vanderscoff: Now, which neighborhood were you raised in, in San Francisco? Daly: The Richmond District.3 Vanderscoff: Now, would you mind recalling some details about your childhood in that neighborhood, in the city as a whole? What was it like being a child of the city in the 30s? Daly: It was very good. [But we were poor.] Once again, I was from a broken family, which in those days was significant. Not like today, where half the  marriages end in divorce. In those days it was probably ten percent ended in divorce, so I was always embarrassed and uncomfortable at school when they said, "Well, it's going to be PTA day, so be sure your parents come." And I knew my parents wouldn't come at the same time, even though they were cordial with each other. But my life was great, because we lived on these relatively narrow streets. Again, I was on 16th at—they called it Cabrillo [pronounced with hard 'l'] in San Francisco. Down here we call it Cabrillo [with Spanish pronunciation]. And that's just a block down from the Golden Gate Park. So it's a nice neighborhood. Foggy and cool, but a nice neighborhood. We used to play out in the street. And we'd play hide and seek and kick the can—things that are all forgotten now. And it was great in the evenings. Then the other thing we did, we would play hockey on the asphalt streets. We had roller skates. They were metal. Not like they are today. These were metal. I was trying to think of the name of them now, it was, gee.... And we would skate back and forth, because we would have goals. And there would be maybe about eight or ten of us. And we would have a puck, and then our hockey sticks. We'd spend an hour, two, three hours skating, to the point where we would actually make that dark gray asphalt look almost white from our roller skates, our metal rollers. And so that was a fun thing to do. Then we'd go around the block to Argonne Grammar School, where I went to grammar school—17th and Cabrillo. And we'd play basketball and baseball. I was a good athlete. So I participated heavily in that. [We often walked to the de Young Museum in Golden Gate Park, climb on the statues and play 'Cowboys and Indians.'] Vanderscoff: Now moving forward, what do you remember of the day Pearl Harbor was attacked, and the days that followed? Daly: I remember it distinctly, almost as if it was last week. It was a Sunday morning and we were home. I was with my grandmother and my aunt, and we were in their sewing room, they called it. And we were sitting there listening to the radio—and I was trying to think of what I was going to do. I don't know. I wasn't studying, I'm sure. But I was there, and all of a sudden here's this announcement that the Japanese had attacked Pearl Harbor. I didn't even know where Pearl Harbor was. And so it got our attention. And then, of course, following that there came news blurbs, and then an almost continual stream of information. "My God, the Japanese have attacked us." We thought, "Oh my God, what's next? Are they going to come over? This is Pearl Harbor, which isn't that far away now that we know where it is. And God, they're going to attack the West Coast." So we were concerned about that. [At that time, people were far less international and had far less access to world news.] Then they began announcing, "Well now we've got to be careful at night. We don't want to have too much light showing to lead them to us. So we're going to start to black out all the homes. You've got to get this black shading." Which we did. (laughs) And we put the black shading up so that we could turn the lights on inside, but no light would get out. So we lived with that for a couple years or more. [There were Japanese submarines sighted on the Pacific coast.] Vanderscoff: Now more broadly, how did the arrival of the war change the culture of the city around you? Daly: Well everybody was, first of all, just shocked. Of course, we were kind of waiting. We were expecting to get into the war sooner or later, because by this time the [Germans] had invaded France and occupied it. And they had made great progress, and we didn't think that the British could hold out against them. That's why we were sending the British all kinds of armament and [material] like that undercover, so to speak. So we kind of knew that we were eventually going to get in it. And President Roosevelt indicated that also. And as we now know, he more or less, in some ways, provoked the attack. I don't know the details of this, but I think some of the things he did caused the Japanese to be far less happy with us. And that's why they took that big step, which was a major step, in attacking the United States. We were so much bigger, so much more powerful, that they really were dreaming. I think they felt they could knock us out with a couple of good, heavy blows like Pearl Harbor, and win the war and we would declare defeat. But, as one of the famous quotations [from] one of the leaders— [Hideki] Tojo, maybe—said, "I'm afraid we've awakened a sleeping lion."4 Vanderscoff: Now as your nation went to war, you went into high school. Daly: Right. Vanderscoff: Now during this time of war, what were your priorities in high school? Did you value your education? Daly: No. Here again, I had no plan to go to college. And with the war now, you knew you were going to be going into the war. And as I said earlier to you, we  knew we were losing hundreds if not a thousand men every day in Europe or in Africa. It was a big war compared to these things we're fighting now. And the ones we're fighting now are bad enough. But this was a big war. And the whole nation was mustered to fight the war, including the women. Once again, interestingly, before World War Two women didn't do much. They were homemakers and secretaries and nurses, and that was about it. They didn't work in factories, unless it was a sewing job. So women were home raising children. So it was during World War II that women began to really become active in the working situations in the country. So I don't know if I answered the question. But that brought about a big change. And everybody was devoted to it. We had rationing. You know you could only buy so much meat, so much butter. You had ration stamps for gasoline, so you could only drive maybe twenty miles a day. Oh no—twenty miles a week, or something. A month, maybe. But in San Francisco that wasn't bad because it's a very compact area. You had a sticker on your car: A, B, and C. And the sticker indicated what kind of a car you had. If it was just for your family it was an A sticker. If you were using [it for] business it would be a B sticker. Anyway, everybody was tightening their belt. And we'd already had a tightening of our belt. Prior to the war, I remember we ate very meagerly. We ate good, because my grandmother was a wonderful cook. But she would cook a pot of beans, chili beans, which were excellent. I still miss them. (laughs) And she would cook a big pot of beans that would last us three or four days. And we would even eat them for breakfast. We would have toast and butter, and then the beans for breakfast. She'd also cook a stew that would last us two or three days. So she would stretch her food dollars a long ways. But we sure didn't sit down to steak dinners or pork chops or lamb chops very often. In fact, hardly at all. Vanderscoff: And did you have a sense that the economic circumstances of the Depression were at all alleviated when the war began, for your family? Daly: (pause) It's hard to answer that, because before the war, when I was a little kid, or a young high schooler, we would be able to buy a Coke for a nickel. Now a nickel was quite a bit of money, kind of like a quarter today. Maybe more. And so we'd get a Coke or a Pepsi for a nickel. And my aunt, my dear aunt, who was my father's sister, she would give us a nickel or dime now and then, which was a big deal. And we'd go down and we'd either buy five cents worth of candy—and you got a pretty good handful of candy for five cents. Now I forget the question. (laughs) But we didn't have a lot before, and then going into the war period we still didn't have a lot. So I didn't feel much change when the war began, and through the first three or four years. However, I repeat, in high school we all wore Levi's. It's interesting. We were wearing Levi's then, and we boys would buy a pair of Levi's in the fall and we'd wear the same pair of Levi's the whole year through to June. We wouldn't wash them. (laughter) And you could do it if you were careful. But they got— ooh, they must have got awful smelly. And then they would—God, they got stiff. But that was what we tried to do: wear them the whole year without washing them. Vanderscoff: (laughs) And why didn't you just throw them in a tub and give them a rinse? Daly: Well for one thing, the washing machines weren't what they are today. They were machines that you put the clothes into. Then [the machine] would turn them back and forth, back and forth. Then you'd wring 'em, and put them into a rinse tub. So doing a laundry was a far bigger job than it is today. That was one reason. Secondly—well of course the boys did that. The women were washing their clothes regularly. But once again, you know, people didn't shower as they do today. They would maybe bathe twice a week. That was it. And again, people would wash to avoid smelling, but they only would shower once or twice a week. Or a tub bath was a popular thing then. Vanderscoff: Now you mentioned a couple minutes ago that you did not particularly value your education at the time. What was your focus in high school then? Daly: Well it was athletics, really. I think that—I knew I wasn't good enough to become a professional athlete. And remember, by that time we would have games in Kezar Stadium, which was only maybe a half a mile from my home, in Golden Gate Park. But Stanford and Cal didn't play there. They played in their own stadiums. But St. Mary's and Santa Clara would play their games at Kezar. And then we in high school played some of our games at Kezar, which was quite a thrill, because it was a stadium that sat sixty thousand people. So football was important. Basketball was not as important. I enjoyed swimming. I was a good swimmer. My father, by the way, was a champion swimmer. And he was solicited by the Olympic Club, which was one of the big athletic clubs in San Francisco prior to World War II, and since. It's still there. And he would swim for them in short distances. Fifty-yard, hundred-yard dashes. So he taught me to swim well, and I was a good swimmer. I ran on the track team. I ran the hundred-yard dash, and the two-twenty. And then I swam, played basketball, but I was never real good at basketball. And then played football, and I played halfback. I was fast, so I was able to carry the ball and run well. Vanderscoff: Now beyond athletics, what did you and your friends do recreationally, for fun in the city? Daly: Well first of all we just took the basic courses. You know, the English, the history, the arithmetic. And then socially, we had a fraternity in high school, which was quite remarkable. We had fraternities and sororities. Again, this wasn't true of many of the high schools in San Francisco, I'm quite sure. And then these fraternities and sororities would get together for parties and/or to put on dances. I've got a scrapbook here that I should let you see, with a lot of these pictures. It'll really bring this to you. Because it's a wonderful—now looking back again, it just shows you how fifty years can make something that was just important to me important to more people. Then we would put on high school dances. About every six weeks we would have an afternoon high school dance. And then we would play records, the old seventy-eight records, and we would jitterbug in the gymnasium. And that was good. The girls were anxious to have the boys dance with them, so they would teach us to dance. And I was a good learner, so I was a good jitterbugger. That was great fun. Then we'd have evening dances that we would put on, and we would sell bids to them for two or three or four dollars. And then people would go—it was called the California Club, toward downtown on California Street. That's where the cable car runs, you know, up to Nob Hill. But this was further out toward the beach. And I have some of the invitations in this scrapbook. So later we'll dig that out. Jarrell: Well to start at the beginning, when and where were you born? Barati: I was born in Györ, a small town in Hungary exactly halfway between Vienna and Budapest, on the Danube, on April 3, 1913 . . . a long time ago. My father came from Porva, a tiny village in a hilly region of Hungary. My mother was born also in Györ. My father was one of twelve children. He was a cattle dealer. He rented large farms from the local bishop but also owned small properties. My mother was one of seven children and came from a middle class family. We lived one street from the promenade in this small town, about the size of the central portion of Los Gatos. Some 20,000 people lived there and there were only a very few factories. The better families lived in the middle of the town, so our home, just a block from the promenade implied a certain style of living. The two-story house was owned by Dr. Pfeiffer who lived upstairs. We lived on the main floor and I had my own small room. The large entrance to the house was big enough to kick around a soccer ball, and the tiny garden, with a ficus tree, under which my grandfather sat, was behind the stall where our two horses and two coaches were stationed. The coachman, Uncle Mibaly, lived above the horses, in a small attic. We lived comfortably. When I was 14 we moved to the end of town into an elegant house, with tile baths—two of them—and a white painted, wood- panelled day room which I loved and practically lived in. A beautiful smoking room, dining room, etc., made up the rest, with a pleasant garden in the court that separated our house from others. We were well-to-do during these few years but the tremendous recession that hit Hungary as the result of the breaking up of the country after the First World War, when Hungary lost its richest assets to the surrounding countries—Czechoslovakia, Roumania and Yugoslavia—resulted in the gradual loss of all we had. Even the assignment of my father with his brother to import thousands of cattle from the west to refresh the cattle herds of Hungary was only a temporary relief. While my childhood and early growing years were comfortable, now we experienced the low end of life. While there was no starvation, we had to give up our beautiful home for a small apartment. This was an example of the major ups and downs that occurred so many times in my life. During that same period I was at first the best or one of the best students in my class. Now, with all these upheavals, I was failed in three subjects in school, one of which was German, even though I had a German governess and spoke a decent amount of German. When my father offered me a choice of becoming either an apprentice of a tailor, or a shoe maker, I begged him to allow me to return to school and promised to be a good student again. He borrowed enough money to pay the minimal expenses and from there on again I became the best of the class, graduating cum laude, another example of this strange up-down process. My only brother, Imre—Emory in English—was six years older. In Central Europe in a middle class family every child studied a musical instrument, either piano, violin or cello. Other instruments were unacceptable, and the woodwind, brass or percussion instruments were used and taught mostly in the military bands, organized from the peasant enlistees. This went so far that, for instance, in our town symphony while the entire string orchestra was composed of city men—no women—the complete wind group was "borrowed" from the very accomplished military band stationed in my home town. Jarrell: And they started very young? Barati: Very young indeed. At age six, brother Imre began his violin lessons with the director of the city music school, a private institution, which received major financial support from the city. I might add that every school had its school orchestra and chorus, but there was no individual instrumental education in the public schools. This director was a well trained violinist and conductor but was a terribly nervous man. When I followed in my brother's footsteps, six years later, I learned early that the violin and this violin teacher just were not for me. I hated the instrument to the extent that when I was assigned, in my third year of playing, to perform a beginner's piece, I refused to appear at the concert. I hid behind the big leather couch and with my current reading and a large piece of coffee cake stayed there until I heard my mother phoning the music school that I suddenly took ill and won't be able to perform. Then I left my hide-out to face the music! But the same teacher also directed the town symphony and he may have been instrumental, unwittingly, to arouse me early to the idea of becoming a conductor. This occurred after a young cello teacher was engaged to the music school and all the bad students of other instruments were transferred to him. I think I must have been the first one, after five miserable years of violin studies. Early September, 1926, at age twelve and a half, I was given one of the cellos that were lined up in the music school in their stand-up cases that looked like so many coffins. I was the tallest; even in the kindergarten I carried the flag—and I got the largest cello. From the first day it was a honeymoon! I loved the cello, right for the tall, lanky boy I was, and admired the teacher, a young, handsome blond man straight out of the Franz Liszt Conservatory. I became his star pupil. In March, 1927, the hundredth anniversary of the death of Beethoven was observed with a student concert. This was six months into my cello studies and I must add that customarily it takes 2 to 3 years for a beginner cello student to produce a reasonable tone and technique. I was given an extremely advanced, difficult piece, an arrangement of several country dances by Beethoven. I am still amazed when I think of the piece, that I actually performed it, and with quite a reasonable sound. When still a violin student, my teacher one day gave me the scores to put on the conductor's stand, prior to the concert which I attended. I never forgot the exciting feeling I experienced, standing at the conductor's podium, looking around at the very large space an orchestra occupies. My ticket was for the balcony, directly above the orchestra and the excitement increased by leaps and bounds as I first watched the large group getting ready for the concert, and then the first sounds of music. I think I was then captured to be a slave of music for the rest of my life! At the end of my first year of cello playing I was allowed to play in the same orchestra, having the last stand, inside, the bottom of the ladder. My partner was an "old" man, who had been a member of the Vienna Philharmonic and returned, quite deaf, to be the town photographer. He played out of tune, not hearing himself, but the conductor, yes, the same violin teacher, kept shouting at me, "George, you are flat!" "George, you are sharp!" This was the opening passage of Schubert's Unfinished Symphony with all cello (and bass) playing pianissimo. Well, we almost finished it with all that shouting and my shaking! Now I was a cellist. Four of us, young kids, played string quartet. We played the Grieg Quartet, Schubert's Death and the Maiden [Quartet], also the big G Major Quartet of Schubert and experienced a thrill beyond our age. I went twice a week to the symphony rehearsals and was allowed to stay out way beyond curfew or the accepted time for young kids to be on the streets. Life was exciting and beautiful, complete as it could be. Well, almost. My school work suffered, not because of the cello, but because of the educational system that prevailed in Hungary. Teaching meant major assignments of home work, with many teachers demanding a word-by-word recitation of the text, be it math or geography, without any interest in making the students understand the material. We knew, for instance, all the rivers of Spain, or every stop of the Orient Express in a senseless mechanical way. Well, I didn't learn them, and, as already said, became a lost young man for about two years. Luckily, the discipline, inherent in learning a musical instrument, replaced in me what school never gave me, until years later. Cello, soccer, ice skating, reading, and, mainly, swimming, were my activities, as well as chess and ping-pong. We trained as a swimming club in the deep industrial channel that was dug at the end of the first World War to accommodate shipping from the huge train and truck factory to the Danube. The war ended before it was finished and it was never connected to the Danube. But our swimming races were in town, in the river Raba, since we did not have a racing pool. Our beautiful town—which I discovered to be so only later on when Ruth and I planned to make our first trip to Europe after the war, with its five rivers and elegant very old buildings. (Napoleon slept in one of them.) The town originated in Roman times, its name was Arabona, but by my childhood the only remnant of that was the name of the funeral company: Arabona. The actual name of the town, Györ, came from the world gyuru that means ring or circle, indicating the fortifications that surrounded the town against the Turks and other invaders. I learned all that and more when I entered a national competition to write the history of one's home town and I won second prize. The bishopric was built around 1030, during or just after St. Stephen's rule as the first king of Hungary . Jarrell: What composers, or writers, or poets influenced you in this earliest part of your life? Barati: In the orchestra we played Weber, Rossini, Beethoven, Haydn, Scharwenka (Czech), Schubert. We loved playing the string quartets of Schubert, Grieg, as I already mentioned, but also tried early and middle Beethoven—with little success due to our lack of true technique, and Haydn, Mozart. During my third year of studying cello, my teacher and I were soloists in the Holberg Suite of Grieg. I can still feel the excitement; the members of the orchestra expressed amazement over my easy assurance during the difficult assignment. I read voraciously and lived in and with books. My mother subscribed to a book club and I read all her books: Balzac, Maupassant, Dumas, Ingrid Undset, Isak Dineson, Mereschkovsky; I also read Galsworthy, Jules Verne, Wodehouse, Sir Walter Scott. The most excitement came from two special authors. There was a monthly issue of something called Mister Hercules, a young New York man, whose aunt established a challenge in her will. He had to solve major enigmas, or accomplish major feats, such as going down the Niagara with some homemade kayak. Upon achieving all, he would receive his large inheritance. The other was the German author Karl May's series of American Indian stories from the Wild West. While May was never in America, he described elaborate geographic areas in great detail. His two main characters were Old Shatterhand and his blood brother, the Indian Winetou, not to forget Winetou's horse. Reading them in Hungarian, all these strange names became Hungarian sounding words: mishter . . . Shutterhund, not to forget Karlia Koplin (Charlie Chaplin) Booster Kayuton (Buster Keaton), my childhood loves, and adult joys. Incidentally, I knew a good amount of German and we also studied French in school. At graduation time I was the valedictorian in both languages. Then there was theater. Our small town had a decent theater, on the small island the river Raba formed just before it emptied into the Danube. A good company played good plays by Hungarian and French authors. There was a large group of very talented Hungarian playwrights, a number of whom were later among the most successful Hollywood film writers. So, Saturday afternoon, my best friend and I were found at the standing room, rain or shine. Only the annual spring floods prevented us from that pleasure, when for some 4 to 5 weeks the two Raba rivers flooded the theatre. I should mention that an uncle of mine, Oscar Beregi, was a famous actor in Germany before the Second World War. Ruth and I met him in a dramatic meeting in New York, where he settled with his daughter, who was married to the very well known Hungarian tenor of Salzburg and recording fame, Kalman Pataki. Strangely, the latter was unable to learn English enough to make contacts at the Met, in spite of his singing in three other languages! Beregi, a truly impressive Barrymore-like personality actually appeared later in some films, in minor characters, in Hollywood. Another family member, who lived in the middle of the 19th Century, was a painter of minor fame. Finally, I will say a few words about the radio of my childhood. Around 1926 my brother built one of the first crystal radios in Györ, and I listened religiously—no pun intended—every Sunday to the matinee concerts of the Vienna Philharmonic. I learned to love the major works in their repertoire, Mahler, Bruckner, Beethoven—no small accomplishment for a 14-year-old. I also learned the names of the leading conductors, under many of whom I performed a very few years later. Bruno Walter, Weingartner, Furtwängler, Richard Strauss . . . to mention a few. Yes, I composed by this time and, naturally, under the influence of the ones just mentioned. I wrote, and played, a small cello piece. I composed a cello concerto, copied out four parts, organized an "orchestra" of four among my classmates, and played-conducted the piece. I must have been the first conductor/performer, not a small feat for a cellist! I still remember the concerto opening passages: they were based on one of the Bruckner horn passages, fifths and octaves combined, also similar to one of the Mozart piano concerto ideas. Then I composed an overture, again copied out the score and parts, and with the enthusiastic permission of our school orchestra conductor, I rehearsed the piece, conducted it, at the age of about 16. I am not ashamed to admit that it was a variation of the main theme of Oberon Overture by Weber. I still love the piece, Weber, that is. Jarrell: I was going to ask you what kind of cultural ambiance prevailed in your family. You said your father was rural and had six years of education and that your mother grew up in the city and had a different background. Barati: The typical middle-class interests. My parents went to the theater and, very occasionally to movies or concerts. My mother read avidly; my father was interested in politics. His handwriting was extraordinarily beautiful, real calligraphy, in spite of his only six years of education. His addition and simple math were also remarkable. My mother entertained her friends for tea, and of course, the main treat was son Georgie. "Please play Traumerei of Schumann for Auntie Ethel and Rosie." Most unwillingly I took out my cello and began the piece. After about four bars the ladies started their chit-chat. I got angry and stopped. This happened every single time for about three years. Then I refused to play. My father was very attentive to my playing and occasionally made a real attempt to make a suggestion or correction. His point, though expressed in a groping manner, usually hit the spot and I tried to carry it out. This went on later too, in Budapest, when I was much more accomplished. He was the one who always bought my shoes. I was growing very fast and he always bought shoes two sizes larger than needed. I played violent soccer with those shoes and every time wore them out much before my feet grew into them. My father maintained a major international cattle business. He travelled to Vienna, Milan, and Udine, a smaller Italian town, every month or two. He always brought me one or several Vita desserts, the famous Viennese chocolate cream specialty. Once he took me to Vienna with him, at the age of about five, just after World War I. It took our train some 12 hours from Györ to Vienna, total distance 67 miles. We were sidetracked, had to wait for fuel for the train, I guess, and the long border crossing, all that was a great tedium. Then my father found he was unable to return as planned, so he sent me back with a friend of his. On the train that man promptly disappeared and left me alone. Arriving at the border, the customs officials found no ticket or passport on me. Finally I took them through the train, until we found the gentleman, deeply in card playing about five coaches ahead of mine. I was desperately hungry, tired, scared, and very happy to get home. I also remember when the Roumanian and Russian troops went through my home town. An announcement was made that nobody must be found on the streets and no window must be open. After they looted the entire town not even leaving the large screws built into the walls of the large coach-truck factory later we visited, they arrived on our street. We all collected upstairs and somebody opened a window to be able to see better. Promptly a shot came, just missing us. End of watching! Sometime later, after the short-lived communist government of Hungary, there was great excitement in town when the former communists were to be "punished." My father told us that we must stay at home. But my brother disappeared, just to come back mid-afternoon with some wooden hammers from a large piano's innards. He told us, and I later saw, that a well- known lawyer, a collaborator, owned a concert grand. The "people" threw it out from his second-story home and all picked some of the pieces. I accompanied him; I always cried when my father spanked or punished brother Imre. Sympathetic vibrations! A joyous part of my early cello training were the after dinner "duets" with my brother who was an excellent violinist and violist, later also a jazz clarinet and saxophone player. We had a bunch of overtures and opera excerpts, reduced for a small group. Out of those we just used the first violin and cello parts, each full of cues for other instruments. We played all cues and just sight read these pieces, many of which became later part of my conducting repertoire. My parents sat around listening, while reading newspapers, whatever. These occasions, the Sunday concerts of the military band outdoors, sitting in the movie orchestra of six musicians and sight reading with them, where my brother for awhile was the leader on the violin, plus the string quartet, occasional sonata assignment from the music school and the symphony gave me a truly well- rounded musical background that served me remarkably well throughout my musical career. 