Cops say the two men pictured above mugged a young teen at his University Heights home. The suspects followed the 14-year-old boy into the elevator of his Walton Avenue apartment building at about 7:20 p.m. on March 27 and demanded his iPhone, police said. The teen handed it over and the crooks fled. The victim was not harmed. The suspects are in their mid to late 20s. Police on Friday busted a hulking homeless man who allegedly threatened to "cut out" a pregnant woman's unborn baby unless she gave him cash from a Greenwich Village ATM, cops said. Melvin Johnson, 49, trailed the 35-year-old mom-to-be into the Bank of America branch on Sixth Avenue near West Eighth Street at about 10 a.m. Monday and displayed a silver metal object, police said. The 6-foot-2, 300-pound suspect allegedly forced the terrified woman to withdraw $400 from the ATM, snarling that he would cut out her baby if she refused, according to cops. Authorities said Johnson fled with the cash and left the woman unharmed. He was charged Friday with robbery. A thug choked and robbed a woman in the elevator of a Harlem apartment building, police said. The crook trailed the 50-year-old victim into the building near West 141st Street and Frederick Douglass Boulevard at about 10:50 p.m. on March 19 and struck up a conversation. When the unsuspecting woman tried to exit the elevator, the thug put her in a chokehold and grabbed her purse, authorities said. The suspect fled with the bag containing about $380. He's believed to be about 35 years old, 6 feet tall to ­6-foot-3 and 220 pounds. He was wearing glasses and sporting a right-ear earring. An off-duty FDNY firefighter was busted for allegedly trying to shoplift a power drill from a Home Depot in Midtown, cops said. David Rodriguez, 48, picked up the $132 drill at the hardware outlet on Third Avenue near East 59th Street at 11 p.m. Thursday and tried to walk past the registers and out the door, police said. He was arrested on charges of petit larceny and possession of stolen property, authorities said. Two teenagers beat a 61-year-old woman during an attempted mugging in Randall Manor, authorities said. The suspects jumped the woman from behind near Castleton Avenue and North Mada Avenue at about 8:30 a.m. on March 13, cops said. They shoved the victim to the ground and mercilessly punched and kicked her while trying to wrest away her purse, police said. But the scrappy senior fought back and the duo finally fled empty-handed. The victim received hospital treatment for facial and hand injuries. The suspects are believed to be about 16 years old. A teen was busted Wednesday for repeatedly breaking into his friend's Arrochar home to steal cash to fund his pot habit, police sources said. Thomas Ranieri, 16, first allegedly slipped into the MacFarland Avenue home through a kitchen window on Feb. 7 and swiped a MacBook Air laptop computer, according to a criminal complaint. Ranieri returned on March 1 and stole about $1,400 from a drawer in the home, the complaint states. Ranieri was nabbed Wednesday after a surveillance camera caught images of him rifling through drawers in the bedroom during a third break-in, sources said. According to the complaint, Ranieri admitted to the burglaries, allegedly saying, "I grabbed half the money cause I felt like [the mom of the pal] would never realize." Ranieri, whom sources said spent the money on pot and a dirt bike, was charged with burglary, grand larceny and possession of stolen property. A drunken off-duty MTA Bridges and Tunnels officer was arrested for allegedly beating his girlfriend in their Old Town apartment, law-­enforcement sources said. Christopher Napoli, 41, allegedly punched the 31-year-old victim repeatedly in the Richmond Road apartment during an argument at 1:45 a.m. Thursday over heading out for more drinks, sources said. The woman suffered a broken nose and lip cuts, and her glasses were shattered in the alleged attack. Napoli, a seven-year B&T police ­veteran, was charged with assault, harassment and ­resisting arrest. A security app on a woman's iPhone snapped a photo of the alleged thief who swiped the device at a Park Slope subway station, police sources said. The 48-year-old victim was aboard a Manhattan-bound 3 train pulling into the Grand Army Plaza station at about 8:10 a.m. on March 24 when the tough shoved her to the floor, snatched her phone and dashed out as the doors opened, cops said. The app automatically captured the image of the suspect fiddling with the phone and forwarded the photo to the owner's e-mail address. The suspect, believed to be about 16 years old, stands about 5-foot-5. Investigators released surveillance images of two suspects in a possibly gang-related brawl in Williamsburg that left two other men with stab wounds. The fracas broke out in the Independence Houses on Wilson Street near Wythe Place at about 6 p.m. Tuesday, cops said. When the dust settled, a 20-year-old man had been stabbed twice in the neck, and an 18-year-old pal had been gouged in the chest, authorities said. They were transported to an area hospital in stable condition. Police sources said the victims were not cooperating with investigators, and that the fight is believed to be gang-related. A phony Realtor who cheated three prospective Morris Park tenants out of thousands of dollars is in custody, cops said. Monessa Samuels, 23, was arrested Wednesday on charges of grand larceny and petit larceny after allegedly collecting deposits from the victims for an apartment she wasn't authorized to rent. The victims responded to a Craigslist ad for a basement apartment on Van Nest Avenue near Bogart Avenue, and were told by Samuels' alleged accomplice to meet her at the unit, ­authorities said. Between Feb. 25 and 28, Samuels showed the pad to three apartment hunters and collected deposits totaling $5,750, police said. The victims never heard back from either fraudster, and were unable to reach them. A violent cheapskate tried to pay for his fuel with counterfeit money at a ­Laconia gas station, then pulled a gun on a worker who protested, police said. The suspect filled his gray 2012 Acura MDX at the Gulf station on East Gun Hill Road near Bouck Avenue at about 9:15 p.m. on March 24, and tried to pay the $57 tab using a phony $100 bill, cops said. When the attendant recognized the note as funny money and refused to accept it, the goon pulled a black handgun and threatened him, authorities said. The gunman then jumped into the Acura and sped off. An innocent Soundview bodega worker shot in the head by a thug gunning for someone else has died, law-enforcment sources said. The victim, identified by sources as 43-year-old Victor Chafla, was stocking produce at VZ Deli Grocery on Morrison Avenue at 5:10 p.m. on March 26, when a stray bullet struck him. Chafla had been clinging to life at Jacobi Medical Center, where he died late Tuesday. Surveillance video shows a gunman firing down Morrison Avenue, and police sources said it's believed Chafla was not the target. The suspects are at large. A 26-year-old man was fatally stabbed Thursday afternoon at a Brownsville housing project, authorities said. Cops responding to a 911 call found Tjuan Rowell unresponsive outside a building in the Howard Avenue Houses near East New York Avenue at about 12:15 p.m., police said. Rowell, of Crown Heights, was pronounced dead at Brookdale Hospital. Authorities did not immediately identify a suspect or a motive in the slaying. A suspect threatened to shoot an Upper East Side bank customer unless a teller handed over money, authorities said. The thug walked into the Chase branch on East 79th Street near Third Avenue at 4 p.m. Monday, approached a teller and uttered the threat about the patron ­behind him, police said. The teller forked over $4,500 and the bandit fled. He did not display a weapon during the holdup. The suspect is believed to be in his 50s, 5-foot-8 with a thin build and hazel eyes. A masked crook executed two gunpoint robberies in the span of 30 minutes in Sunset Park, police said. The bandit drew his weapon on a 38-year-old man on 54th Street near Ninth Avenue on March 7 at about 2:20 a.m. and forced his hand into the man's pocket, cops said. He fled with about $760 and the victim's wallet, authorities said. About a half-hour later, the mugger accosted a 35-year-old man as he was parking his car in the driveway of his 47th Street home, according to cops. The victim handed over $60 at gunpoint, police said. The robber is about ­5-foot-7 and weighs about 150 pounds. A prowler burglarized two apartments in the same Bushwick building, police sources said. The break-in artist scaled the fire escape of the building on Wilson Avenue near Himrod Street on March 25 sometime between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. and slipped into a third-floor apartment through a window, sources said. While the tenants were at work, the thief swiped a Samsung phone and $75, then hopped back onto the fire escape, sources said. He kicked in a window-mounted air conditioner on a neighboring unit, and climbed inside, according to sources. The crook pocketed $1,600 cash, and $4,000 in jewelry including two necklaces and a pair of earrings, cops said. Investigators couldn't immediately provide a description of the suspect. Three muggers assaulted and robbed a man on a Bushwick street, law-enforcement sources said. The 22-year-old victim was walking on Central Avenue near Linden Street on March 25 at about 6 p.m. when he was approached by two men and a woman. One of the men barked, "Give me your wallet!" as the other whipped out a sharp object and slashed the victim's right hand, sources said. As the group tussled, one of the hoods grabbed the victim's wallet, and the trio took off running toward Grove Street, sources said. One of the male suspects is about 5-foot-7 and 180 pounds and the other is about 5-5 and 160 pounds. Their female accomplice is about 5-foot-3 and 140 pounds. A Fort Greene man went medieval on his neighbor, slashing him in the face with a sword during a dispute, police sources said. Yency Delgado, 48, charged over to his neighbor's home on Carlton Avenue near Myrtle Avenue last Saturday at about 7:40 p.m. and pounded on his door, sources said. When the victim opened his door, Delgado allegedly sliced his face with the blade, sources said. The victim was treated for gashes near his left eye and on his forehead. Delgado was charged with assault and weapons possession. A fiend tried to rape a teen in an East Harlem apartment building, authorities said. The perv trailed the 19-year-old victim into the elevator of the Third Avenue building on March 25 at about 4:40 a.m., police said. When the elevator reached the 12th floor, the attacker dragged her out, forced her into the stairwell, and attempted to rape her. The brave woman fought off the assailant, though he managed to swipe her iPhone before fleeing, authorities said. The suspect stands about 5-foot-8 and weighs about 175 pounds. A goon groped a woman on a Little Italy street, officials said. The 27-year-old woman was walking on Mulberry Street on March 15 at about 1:50 a.m. when the pervert approached her from behind and pawed her over her clothing, cops said. The woman fought back and the creep ran off, police said. The suspect is believed to be about 30 years old and about 180 pounds. An irate limo passenger assaulted his driver with a baseball bat in Eltingville during an argument over his services, law-enforcement sources said. Jason Labarbera, 19, was sitting in the limo on Richmond Avenue near Amboy Road on Sunday at about 4:40 a.m. when he got into a dispute with the driver and whipped out a metal bat, police sources said. Labarbera allegedly bashed the driver on the head, body and wrist, then kicked him in the head, sources said. Labarbera allegedly snarled, "Give me my ­f–king money!" and grabbed $600, according to a criminal complaint. Before fleeing with the loot, he raised the bat again and smashed the side-view mirror and rear window of the 2013 Lincoln limo, cops said. Labarbera was hit with a slew of charges including assault, grand larceny, and possession of a weapon and stolen property. A thug robbed a pregnant woman at a Greenwich Village ATM on Monday morning, cops said. The heavy-set goon threatened the woman with a sharp object at around 10:30 a.m. and forced her to withdraw $500 from an ATM on Sixth Avenue near West Eighth Street, cops said. The robber, who was wearing a brown jacket, then fled with the cash, cops said. The woman was not believed to be injured. No arrests have been made, according to police. Queens A duffel bag with a dead body in it washed ashore in Far Rockaway on Monday morning, authorities said. Authorities did not release any information on the age or gender of the corpse, nor how long the body may have been in the water. The discovery was made shortly before noon. Police are looking for a serial groper who has been targeting teens, trying to fondle them through their clothes. In one incident, the perv, described as between 30 and 40 years old, approached a 13-year-old girl at 136th Street and 59th Avenue on March 11 and groped her, cops said. He also grabbed a 19-year-old on March 23, and a 15-year-old last Nov. 6, also on street corners. All incidents occurred within blocks of each other in Flushing and occurred between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m., cops said. The groper is believed to be 5-foot-8 and 170 pounds. In one attack, he was wearing a dark green jacket, a gray hooded sweatshirt and blue jeans. The luck of the Irish wasn't on this cabby's side. Two toughs robbed an Uber driver on St. Patrick's Day in Coney Island, officials said. The hoods climbed into the 21-year-old hack's cab near West 33rd Street and Neptune Avenue at around 8:55 p.m. and threatened him with a metal object, cops said. The muggers demanded cash, but wound up fleeing with only a cellphone, according to police. Two thieves barged into a Bedford-Stuyvesant cellphone store and stole electronic devices and $10,000 in cash, authorities said. The men entered the Metro PCS store at Bedford Avenue and Kosciuszko Street Sunday at 11 a.m., and one of them flashed a gun and forced a worker into a bathroom, cops said. They then took the cash, cellphones and accessories before fleeing, cops added. Surveillance video showed the men running down the street holding a black bag and wearing bandanas over their faces. The gunman is described as 6-foot-1 and 230 pounds. He was wearing a gray, hooded sweatshirt and a black hat. His cohort is about 140 pounds and was wearing a black sweatshirt and beige cargo pants. An gunman held up a Gravesend liquor store last Friday night, according to cops. Police said the bandit walked into the G&H Liquor Store on Kings Highway near East Second Street at around 8:05 p.m. and pulled a gun on the clerk. The worker forked over about $1,000, and the gunman dashed off. A bandit robbed a livery driver at gunpoint in Clifton, authorities said. The thief hailed the hack in Brooklyn on March 19 at about 2:15 a.m. and asked to be taken to an apartment building on Osgood Avenue near Fairway Avenue, police said.When the car arrived at the building, the hood pulled a gun on the 37-year-old cabby and demanded his money, officials said. The thief dashed out of the car with an unspecified sum of cash, according to cops. The driver was unharmed. The robber is believed to be between 5-foot-8 and 6-1, and was wearing a gray baseball cap embossed with the letter "B." A thief stole a woman's wallet at a Home Depot in Bloomfield, cops said. The 42-year-old victim was shopping at the Home Depot on Forest Avenue near Dwarf Street on March 21 when she left her pocketbook on a counter and walked away. The sticky-fingered shopper spied the unguarded bag and swiped the victim's wallet, cops said. A store surveillance camera captured this shot of the grinning suspect. Two men beat and robbed a parking-lot attendant in the West Bronx, authorities said Sunday. The thieves entered a parking lot attached to an apartment complex on East Burnside Avenue near Valentine Avenue at around midnight Saturday — and one of the men tried to open the door of one of the vehicles, police said. The attendant approached one of the men and said he would call police unless the man left, not realizing that the accomplice had sneaked off to the lot's office and was waiting to ambush the worker, police said. When the victim entered the office to call 911, the thug jumped him. The first man then joined in and stole the clerk's money and cellphone. The victim was taken to St. Barnabas Hospital with cuts to the face and head. Investigators have released new surveillance images of a person wanted in the sexual assault of a woman in her Bedford-Stuyvesant home. The creep trailed the 36-year-old victim into her apartment building near Van Buren Street and Lewis Avenue at around 7:30 p.m. on Jan. 27, according to cops. The sicko followed the woman into the stairwell, where he forced down her pants and sexually abused her, police said. He fled when the woman fought back. The suspect is believed to be about 19 or 20 years old and about 5-foot-6 with a thin build. Two men wanted for shooting two teenagers — one fatally — during a botched robbery in East New York last year have been arrested, police said Sunday. Ajuul Manwaring, 20, and Shaquille Escalaona, 17, tried to rob the two victims as they were sitting in the back of a livery cab on McClancy Place in East New York at around 6 p.m. on Dec. 19, according to police. When Aaron Parkinson, 19, and his 18-year-old pal refused to turn over their cellphones, one of the thugs unloaded the pistol into the car before fleeing, cops said. The livery-cab driver raced the two injured teens to Brookdale Hospital, but Parkinson could not be saved. The other victim survived with a graze wound to the shoulder. Manwaring and Escalaona were charged with murder and robbery, according to police. This took a whole "lotto" gall. A teenage tough swiped several lottery tickets from a Coney Island deli and threatened the life of a worker who tried to stop him, cops said Sunday. The thug walked into the A&T Grocery on Stillwell Avenue near Mermaid Avenue at around 3:15 p.m. on March 16 and started helping himself to the scratch-off tickets, officials said. When confronted by a 26-year-old clerk, the creep shoved him backward and threatened to kill him before running off, cops said. The thief is believed to be about 18 years old, 6-feet tall and 160 pounds. Two armed crooks knocked off a Lower East Side bodega early Friday, authorities said. The men burst into the deli on East Houston Street at around 3 a.m. and pistol-whipped the 52-year-old clerk, cops said. The bandits ordered the injured worker to stay on the floor as they grabbed cash, cigarettes and lottery tickets, police said. The two also snatched the clerk's iPhone 4 before fleeing, according to authorities. Queens A man tried to break into the Maspeth office of an environmental cleaning firm last month, investigators said Sunday. A witness spotted the would-be burglar tampering with the garage door of Maspeth Environmental Corp. on 46th Street near 54th Road at around 10 a.m. on Feb. 22, cops said. When approached by the witness, the prowler ran off. Police determined the man was trying to short out the garage-door switch. Authorities have identified a suspect in a New Brighton shooting that landed a 41-year-old man in the hospital. Jahcaiy Moore, 21, blasted the victim in the left leg on Jersey Street near Layton Avenue at around 11:30 a.m. on Jan. 30, according to police. Investigators did not disclose a motive in the attack. The victim was treated at an area hospital. Moore stands 6-foot-1 and weighs 180 pounds. Investigators released this surveillance image of the gunman who fatally shot a man on an East New York street Thursday afternoon. Jonathan Thomas, 24, was walking near Shepherd and Glenmore avenues just before 2 p.m. when the assailant ran up and fired a single round into his head, cops said. Thomas, who lived just blocks from the scene, was pronounced dead at Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center. Police sources said the slaying was possibly drug-related. Two thugs robbed a woman at gunpoint in her East New York apartment building — and then sped off in her car, authorities said. The goons trailed the 26-year-old victim into the building on Vandalia Street at around 11 p.m. on March 21 and pulled a gun on her as she was waiting for the elevator, according to police. The woman handed over her iPhone 5, jewelry and car keys before the duo fled. After the suspects took off, the victim ran outside to find her 2006 Ford Escape was gone as well, cops said. The woman was not injured in the stickup. A pair of thieves swiped thousands of dollars from two ATMs in Chelsea and the Flatiron District, authorities said. The duo forced their way into a machine on West 23rd Street near Seventh Avenue sometime between 12:30 a.m. Feb. 22 and 12 p.m. Feb. 23 and made off with $4,820, officials said. They pilfered another $2,460 from an ATM on West 21st Street near Sixth Avenue between 9:15 p.m. March 17 and 6:30 a.m. Mar. 18, according to cops. The suspects also tried unsuccessfully to break into at least four other ATMs across lower Manhattan since Jan. 26, police said. The Post exclusively reported last month that a ring of ATM burglars had swiped more than $100,000 from 73 machines across the city. Police sources said there was no apparent connection between that spree and this heist. Cops are looking to put a "wrap" on this burglar. The prowler broke into a Port Richmond wrap eatery and swiped the cash register, authorities said. The thief smashed open the glass door on the side of Call It a Wrap on Forest Avenue near Llewellyn Place at around 11:50 p.m. on March 10 and slipped inside, police said. He carried the register, which contained about $140, out to his pickup truck and sped off, according to cops. Investigators said the truck may be red with a gray trim. The suspect stands about 5-foot-6. Police have released a surveillance image of a would-be rapist who allegedly assaulted a Williamsburg mom. The assailant, reeking of alcohol, approached the 36-year-old woman at a bodega on Havemeyer Street near South Third Street around 11:30 p.m. Wednesday and tried to strike up a conversation, police said. After she told the creep she wasn't interested, he trailed her into her apartment building, where he attacked her in the hallway, sources said. The violent perv punched the victim and tore off her clothes as she screamed for help. The victim's 16-year-old son raced from their apartment and scared off the attacker. The suspect, believed to be between 25 and 35 years old, stands about 6-foot-2, weighs 180 pounds and wore a blue jacket with yellow lettering on the back. A creep tried to lure an 11-year-old girl into his car in Williamsburg, police said. The perv pulled alongside the girl in his silver SUV as she was walking on Manhattan Avenue near Moore Street around 5:50 p.m. March 13 and waved at her to come toward him, cops said. When she ignored him and kept walking, the would-be abductor parked his car and started following the girl on foot, beckoning her to come with him, authorities said. He drove away when the girl took off running. The bespectacled suspect (depicted in the above sketch) is believed to be about 35 and stands 5-foot-8. A man busted with 23 grams of heroin at the Port Authority Bus Terminal on Thursday afternoon told PAPD officers he was a diabetic who was only carrying candy, officials said. Patrolling officers noticed Ricardo Castellar, 24, shaking and sweating in the passenger area of Gate 3115 around 4 p.m. and asked if he needed medical help, authorities said. Castellar, of Binghamton, told the cops he was diabetic and that he had candy in his bag. When he opened the bag, the officers spotted several glassine envelopes tucked inside, according to the PAPD. He was charged with criminal possession of a controlled substance. Transit cops found a loaded gun in the pocket of a turnstile jumper at a Harlem subway station early Wednesday morning, authorities said. Officers Christian Serpico and Trevor Wisz were patrolling the West 145th Street Station on the A line just after midnight when they spotted Otha Williams hopping over a turnstile, cops said. Williams, 22, tried to struggle away from the officers, who found a loaded .38-caliber Walther handgun in his pants, police said. Williams, of The Bronx, was hit with a slew of charges including weapons possession, resisting arrest and theft of service. Queens A man was shot dead in a robbery gone wrong Thursday afternoon in St. Albans, possibly after being set up by his girlfriend, police sources said. Michael Jonathan, 33, was walking with 30-year-old Natasha Mohabeer on Fonda Avenue near Mayville Street around 2:50 p.m. when a gun-toting crook approached and demanded Jonathan's cash, sources said. Jonathan handed over his money but then lunged for the gun, sources said. During the struggle the gun went off, sending a fatal round into Jonathan's stomach. Mohabeer later confessed to cops that she'd orchestrated the stickup, sources said. She was arrested on charges of murder, robbery and criminal possession of a weapon. A thug shot a man in the foot following an argument at a South Ozone Park nightclub early Monday morning, authorities said. The two got into a verbal spat at the Underground Lounge on 123rd Street near Liberty Avenue around 4:20 a.m., according to cops. This man is wanted for snatching a straphanger's phone, cops said. The victim, 34, was seated on an F train near Fort Hamilton Parkway when the thief grabbed the phone out of his hand on Jan. 28 at 8:15 p.m., cops said. The suspect is believed to be about 20 years old and was last seen wearing a dark blue waist-length jacket, gray-hooded sweatshirt and black sneakers. A man was arrested for groping two young girls in Bensonhurst, police said. Guillermo Tambriz, 21, allegedly grabbed an 11-year-old girl's private parts on Duryea Court on March 4 at about 3 p.m., police said. The attacker fled and the victim was not injured. He also allegedly grabbed a 14-year-old girl's thigh on 66th Street Tuesday at about 7:20 a.m., police said. Tambriz was busted Wednesday and faces charges of attempted sexual abuse and acting in a manner injurious to a child less than 17, cops said. A group of teens robbed a child and ran off with his cellphone in Bushwick, cops said. The victim, 12, was walking home from school on Wyckoff Avenue and Menahan Street Monday at 3 p.m. when he was approached by several teens who asked to use his phone to place a call, cops said. But they fled with the Samsung Galaxy phone, cops said. A Morris Heights man fought off two robbers and picked up one of their cellphones after he dropped it while fleeing, sources said. The victim, 47, was walking home on East 167th Street and Sherman Avenue Sunday at 4:45 a.m. when he was approached by the two muggers, sources said. They demanded cash, but he refused and the crooks took off after a brief scuffle, sources said. The victim noticed one of them had dropped a cellphone and turned it over to police. The suspect returned to the crime scene looking for his phone, but ran away when he realized the victim was still there. Cops are still trying to track down the culprits, cops said. The victim suffered a bruise to the right ear in the scuffle, but refused medical attention at the scene, police said. A thief snatched a woman's cellphone while she was on the line with a livery-car service in Morris Heights, police sources said. The woman was on Jesup Avenue and Goble Place Tuesday at 2:30 p.m. when a man walked up to her and grabbed the iPhone 6 from her hand, sources said. The phone was in a case that also contained a debit card and $100, police said. A description of the mugger wasn't immediately available. Queens A van was stolen from a Bayside street, police sources said. The 43-year-old owner of the 2009 Ford Ecoline parked the vehicle on 204th Street and Northern Boulevard on Tuesday at 10 p.m. and discovered it missing at 10 a.m. the following morning, sources said. Police confirmed it wasn't towed and the woman had both sets of keys. There was no broken glass where the car was parked, cops said. A thief has been snatching purses, cellphones and cash from unsuspecting shoppers in Flushing, cops said. The suspect was caught on video surveillance inside a Main Street grocery store, but investigators have linked him to at least nine thefts in the neighborhood. He last struck Monday inside CJ Supermarket on 40th Avenue and Main Street, where he swiped a wallet from a woman's purse, cops said. He snatched a woman's iPhone on March 3 at 12:30 p.m. on Kissena Boulevard and 41st Avenue inside the EW Studio, a cellphone store. He also has targeted women in at least four different grocery stores, cops said. Another theft occurred in a Starbucks on Main Street March 3. A burglar broke into a Bayside home, but fled empty-handed, police sources said. The victim, 51, returned home from work at about 7 p.m. Monday, and realized a back window was shattered, the sources said. Two chairs had been moved in the dining room, but there didn't appear to be anything missing, sources said. The resident told cops there was no video surveillance in the home and neighbors said they hadn't heard anything indicating a burglary had occurred, police said. Cops are looking for two thugs who pistol-whipped a man and then beat him with a golf club in Kingsbridge. One of the attackers fired a gun into the air and then smacked a 21-year-old man with the weapon Wednesday at about 5 p.m., police said. His accomplice beat the man with a golf club, officials added. The victim was treated at an area hospital and released. Police released surveillance images of the suspects. The gun-wielding man was wearing a black hoodie and the club-wielding attacker was wearing a striped shirt. A thief burglarized a Bushwick apartment while the resident was at work, police sources said. The burglar got into the Knickerbocker Avenue apartment near Stockholm Street through a rear window Monday sometime between 7:30 a.m. and 7:20 p.m., sources said. When the 45-year-old resident returned home, he discovered his 32-inch TV and PlayStation 3 were missing and a rear window was open, the sources said. It wasn't immediately clear if the victim had left the window unlocked before going to work. A bully robbed a boy near a Bushwick high school, police sources said. The 12-year-old victim was walking near the Bushwick Community HS on Palmetto Street and Knickerbocker Avenue last Friday at 3:10 p.m. when another kid, believed to be 13, walked up and put his hand on the boy's shoulder, sources said. But the seemingly friendly gesture turned into a robbery when the suspect slipped his hand into the boy's pants pocket and forcibly snatched his Samsung Galaxy 4, the sources said. The suspect is about 5-foot-10 and 100 pounds. A snoozing straphanger awoke to find a creep kissing her and groping her on a D train barreling through Borough Park, police said. The suspect approached the 20-year-old as she dozed on the train Feb. 28 at about 2:10 a.m., planted a kiss on her and grabbed her chest, cops said. The victim awoke and shoved the perv, who fled at the 55th Street station, police added. The suspect is believed to be in his 40s. A perv groped two young girls in Bensonhurst, police said. The suspect grabbed an 11-year-old girl's private parts on Duryea Court on March 4 at about 3 p.m., police said. The creep fled and the victim was not injured, cops added. He grabbed a 14-year-old girl's thigh on 66th Street Tuesday at about 7:20 a.m., police added. The suspect is believed to be 25 years old, 5-foot-3 and 160 pounds. A buxom brunette model's head was gashed when another woman hurled a wine glass at her inside an exclusive Meatpacking District nightclub, police sources said. The model, Brittani Bader, 22, and another woman, Kathleen Ward, 23, got into an argument at Provocateur nightclub on Ninth Avenue last Saturday at about 2:50 a.m., police sources added. Ward grabbed a wine glass and thrust it at Bader's right temple, according to a criminal court complaint. "I had a glass thrown at me!" Bader exclaimed. Ward was charged with felony assault with a weapon and intent to cause injury. It was not clear what started the dispute, but the model refused medical treatment at the scene, sources said. A thief was caught swiping a computer from a Meatpacking District market, police said. Phillip McQueary, 57, entered the Gansevoort Street Market near Greenwich Street last Sunday at 4:25 p.m., cops said. McQueary went into the office and took a bag, the laptop and other valuables, cops said. He tried to slip out, but cops caught him and arrested him on charges of grand larceny and criminal possession of stolen property. Queens A man attempted to kill a foe in Ridgewood, cops said. The 24-year-old victim was walking with his girlfriend near Seneca and Gates avenues at about 2:20 a.m. Thursday when the assailant allegedly ran up and yelled in Spanish, "I'm going to kill you, white boy!" Cops believe there had been a previous dispute between the men, sources said. The suspect cut the victim's throat with a sharp object and fled, ­according to police. The victim's wound required stitches, authorities said. The suspect is believed to be in his late 20s and about 5-foot-8 with a ­medium build. Investigators are also looking for a possible female accomplice who acted as a lookout during the assault. A plastered plane passenger was arrested after his drunken antics forced a pilot to make an unscheduled stop at Kennedy Airport early Friday, law-enforcement sources said. The American Airlines flight from Miami was en route to London at about 3:30 a.m. when the tippler began causing a ruckus and refused to settle down, sources added. Air marshals restrained him and the flight was diverted to JFK, sources added. The Spanish national, whose name was not released due to pending charges, was taken into custody by FBI agents. A man who mugged a Bayside resident as she was clearing snow off her car last week has been linked to an attack in ­Jamaica, cops said. In the Bayside attack, he approached a 56-year-old woman next to her snow-covered vehicle at 228th Street and 64th Avenue at 6 a.m. last Saturday, police said. He shoved her into the back seat, snatched her Coach purse from the driver's seat and fled, sources said. Investigators have now linked the suspect to a mugging the day before in Jamaica. In that incident, he was in a white sedan with an accomplice at 195th Street and 110th Avenue at 2:15 p.m. when the car pulled up to a 27-year-old woman. The duo shoved her to the ground, snatched her purse and fled, said law-enforcement authorities. No serious injuries were reported in either robbery, authorities said. Cops this week arrested a man linked to a spate of thefts from Elm Park to Westerleigh. Suspect Daniel Sokolski, 30, was initially spotted in Brooklyn on surveillance video, authorities said. He was seen at a deli at Fourth Avenue and 86th Street in Bay Ridge using a stolen credit card to make a $12 purchase, cops said. The card is the property of a 25-year-old victim whose parked car was burglarized on Houston Street in the Elm Park section of the Island, police said. Sokolski is believed to be responsible for five recent Island break-ins, including three between 6 and 9 p.m. Monday from Jaffe Street to Gloria Court, cops added. He was charged with three counts of grand larceny, three counts of possession of stolen property and one count of petit larceny, said law-enforcement authorities. A muscular prowler slipped into a Harlem bar early Monday and stole a safe containing tens of thousands of dollars, authorities said. The suspect forced his way into Shrine Bar & Restaurant on Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard near West 134th Street at 6:35 a.m. and hauled off the safe containing $20,000 in cash, cops said. He's believed to be about 40 years old, 6-foot-2 and 200 pounds. One man was killed and another wounded in Wakefield early Friday, cops said. The victims, in their 30s, were at East 242nd Street and Murdock Avenue when an unidentified gunman opened fire at 1:20 a.m., hitting them in the torso, authorities said. The shooter fled. One of the victims was rushed to Montefiore Hospital where he was pronounced dead. The other was rushed to Jacobi Medical Center, where he was listed in stable condition, officials said. Police are withholding the deceased's name pending family notification. He looks more hipster than heist suspect! A crook — dressed in a neat, button-up plaid shirt, fashionable black jacket, slacks and dress shoes — tried to knock off a Harlem bank Saturday morning. The bespectacled, well-dressed bandit, wearing a knit hat with "New York'' on it, slipped a demand note at 9:20 a.m. to a teller at the Chase bank on Frederick Douglass Boulevard near West 118th Street, according to cops. At one point, he politely folded his hands in front of him on the counter as he waited for his dough. But the teller coolly rebuffed the request and the thief ran off, police said. A man was pulled over in the West Village for running a stop sign — and cops discovered he had 19 driving suspensions, sources said Sunday. After Mario Jones, 58, was pulled over in his black Nissan Altima at around 9:45 a.m. on Feb. 25, police found that he had 16 suspensions on nine different dates, the sources alleged. He allegedly had three more suspensions under an alias, they said. He was charged with aggravated unlicensed operation of a vehicle and operation of a motor vehicle without a license. Queens A 55-year-old man was discovered dead inside an E train in Jamaica on Sunday, cops said. The man was found unconscious and unresponsive inside the eastbound train at Jamaica Center station at around 7 a.m., police said. EMS pronounced the man dead at the scene and the medical examiner will determine the cause of death, cops said. There were no signs of trauma, sources said. The identity of the man was being withheld pending family notification. A gunman shot a guy in the neck early Sunday as the victim sat in a car in St. Albans, cops said. The unidentified 23-year-old victim was in the rear of the car on Foch Boulevard near Merrick Boulevard at about 5 a.m. when a bullet hit him in the neck, authorities said. He was rushed to Jamaica Hospital, where he is listed in stable condition, cops said. There have been no arrests and a description of the gunman was unavailable. An armed thug held up a Bellerose corner store Sunday afternoon, authorities said. The crook entered Wang's Stationery on Braddock Avenue near 237th Street at approximately 1:20 p.m. and pulled out a gun, demanding cash from the clerk, cops said. The thief fled in an unknown direction with an undetermined amount of money, cops added. There were no injuries, and a description of the suspect was unavailable. A firefighter was charged with driving under the influence in Travis-Chelsea, law-enforcement sources said Sunday. Christopher Lorenzo, 34, was stopped at around 11:30 p.m. on Feb. 28 for failing to signal while changing lanes at Victory Boulevard and West Shore Expressway, according to a criminal complaint. His eyes were watery and bloodshot, and he smelled of alcohol, according to police. Lorenzo refused to take coordination and Breathalyzer tests. He was charged with driving while intoxicated and driving while ability impaired. A search warrant executed at a St. George home uncovered an unlicensed loaded gun, ammo and PCP, law-enforcement sources said Sunday. Nicholas Hartley, 32, was arrested after cops searched the home on Richmond Terrace at 6 a.m. on Jan. 15, according to a criminal complaint. Detectives found a loaded Taurus Millenium .40-caliber gun inside a jacket pocket in the bedroom closet and also 10 bullets in a magazine, the sources said. Inside a dresser were six additional rounds, the criminal complaint states. Cops also found 12 individually wrapped pieces of tin foil containing PCP in the freezer, the complaint said. Hartley was charged with criminal possession of a weapon, criminal possession of a firearm, criminal possession of a controlled substance, criminally using drug paraphernalia and possession of ammunition. An Apple-loving identity thief was busted after he used an illicit debit card to purchase several MacBook computers in January, authorities said Sunday. Steven Coby, 28, called Santander Bank on Jan. 7, misrepresented himself as another man and requested that a new debit card be sent to a Heartland Village Fed Ex location, according to a criminal complaint. Coby picked up the card on Jan. 14 and went on a shopping spree at a nearby PC Richard & Son and at two Manhattan-based Apple stores, where he bought three MacBook Pro computers, the complaint alleges. The next day, Coby allegedly went to a Manhattan Apple store again to buy one more computer, spending more than $12,000 on the debit card, sources said. Maybe he just needed a good night's sleep. Cops released surveillance video of a cranky pillow thief who assaulted a worker and fled a University Heights store with his plush booty on Feb. 5. He was seen on camera at about 5:45 p.m. holding the pillows at Four Brothers Discount at Grand Concourse and East 181st Street, where he struck a worker who had confronted him, cops said. He was last seen wearing dark blue jeans, a brown winter hat and white sneakers. A mustachioed burglar swiped two diamond rings from an apartment in Greenpoint, cops said. The prowler slipped into the Union Avenue pad at about 7 p.m. on Feb. 28 through a kitchen window. He scanned the apartment with a flashlight, grabbed a pair of diamond-studded gold rings, hopped back through the window and descended the fire escape, according to police. The suspect stands about 5-foot-8 and has a medium build. Queens Brazen thieves ransacked a Radio Shack store in Howard Beach, authorities said. The suspects, a man and woman, walked into the store on Feb. 18 at about 6 p.m. and fled with merchandise in a bag, according to police. Cops say the woman distracted a store worker while her accomplice filled a bag with items. They were seen on surveillance video from the store. The woman has long hair and wore a brown jacket while the man was wearing a black ski mask. Two men beat and robbed a straphanger at a Richmond Hill station, authorities said. After getting off a Manhattan-bound E train at the Jamaica/Van Wyck station at about 10:55 p.m. on Feb. 28, the hoods jumped the 18-year-old victim on the platform, cops said. The duo roughed up the victim and fled with his iPhone, jacket, wallet and $50, according to police. One of the suspects is believed to be about 19 years old, standing ­5-foot-11 and weighing 160 pounds, cops said. His accomplice was described as about 20 years old, standing 5-foot-10 and weighing 130 pounds. Queens A brawl erupted inside an Astoria nightclub early Friday where a Texas-based rapper was performing, police sources said. The artist, Chedda Da Connect, known for his recent hits "Flicka Da Wrist" and "Why Not?" in the ­underground rap scene, was on stage at Perlieu, at 34th Street and 36th Avenue, at about 3 a.m. when fists and bottles started flying, the sources said. The rapper wasn't injured but four patrons on the dance floor were slashed amid the mayhem, the sources said. Three victims suffered gashes to the head and the fourth suffered a slash to the back, law-enforcement sources said. Three people were taken to the 114th Precinct station house for questioning but no one had been charged as of Friday afternoon, police said. It wasn't immediately clear what sparked the violence. Club-goers were ordered out shortly after the melee, sources said. Cops arrested a man believed to have been involved in a gunfight outside a Long Island City nightclub last October. Police announced Friday that Traevon Robinson, 23, had been charged with four counts of felony ­assault and three counts of reckless endangerment in the shootout outside ­Allure at around 10:45 p.m. on Oct. 19. A 37-year-old man was hit in the chest, a 19-year-old woman was struck in the leg and two men, ages 23 and 28, were hit in the leg. The victims were rushed to nearby hospitals and survived, authorities said. Cops are still looking for the man they believe traded gunfire with Robinson. Police are investigating the death of a 25-year-old man whose body was found in his bed in Jackson Heights. Joel Ferreira was found unconscious and unresponsive in his home at about 7 p.m., Thursday. The body showed no signs of trauma, and the Medical Examiner's Office is working to determine a cause of death. A violent female crook robbed a woman of her cellphone in Bushwick, ­police sources said. The 25-year-old victim was at Dekalb and Central avenues at about 5:15 p.m. Tuesday when the suspect, a woman in her early 20s, approached from behind, sources said. The attacker punched the victim in the back and snatched the cellphone, police said. No suspect description was available. A man high on crack was caught inside a Bushwick building where he failed in his bid to swipe copper piping, police sources said. Stanley Hembrick, 62, was in the basement of the building at Halsey Street and Evergreen Avenue at 8 a.m. Wednesday when a tenant spotted him and ­dialed 911, the sources said. Cops responded and arrested Hembrick, who admitted he was high on crack, law-enforcement sources said. He was charged with burglary, cops said. He has prior arrests for trademark counterfeiting and trespassing, cops said. A man allegedly robbed a teen in Longwood, police said. The 14-year-old victim was walking by an apartment building on West Farms Road near Home Street at 4:20 p.m. on Feb. 26 when a man approached him on the sidewalk and snatched his phone, cops said. The victim was not injured, authorities said. Cops are asking for the public's help finding two men who shoved their way into a 17-year-old girl's apartment in Bedford Park. The suspects went to the victim's home near East 202nd Street and stole her Xbox 360 and $40 at knifepoint at about 4 p.m. on Jan. 28, police said. One of the suspects was described as about 5-foot-4 and 155 pounds and was last seen wearing a black mask and carrying a red backpack, law-enforcement authorities said. The second suspect was described as approximately 5-foot-10 and 155 pounds and wearing a black hoodie and a mask. A woman posed as a CVS employee and emptied out a safe full of cash from the manager's office while in "training" in Greenwich Village, authorities said. Police say the suspect (above) walked into the store at 360 Sixth Avenue at 11:40 p.m. on Jan. 2, telling too-trusting employees that she was a fellow CVS worker from a different store who was there for training, police said. While alone in the manager's office, she stole cash and fled before anyone ­noticed, cops said. The suspect, described as a brunette, was last seen wearing a red hoodie ­beneath a green sweater jacket, sources said. Police have linked three men to a Harlem shooting. The suspects were caught on video surveillance in the building near the intersection of Park Avenue and East 130th Street where a 25-year-old man was shot in the stomach at about 10:40 p.m. Tuesday, cops said. The victim was rushed to Harlem Hospital, where he is expected to survive, authorities said. An Uber driver told cops he picked up five men in Harlem who directed him to a nearby housing project — where three jumped out and fired shots toward the building at about 1 p.m. Thursday, sources said. The driver then took off with the other two in the car — ignoring their orders to return and pick up their pals — and alerted his headquarters that his passengers were armed and that shots had been fired, sources said. He said the men ­demanded to be taken to Kennedy Airport. There, they bailed and ran toward Terminal 2, where the NYPD and Port Authority Police apprehended them, cops said. But after an investigation, the men were released. Queens Police busted a man accused of raping a massage therapist at gunpoint in her Little Neck salon. Luis Jessup, 37, of College Point Boulevard, arrived for a 7:30 a.m. appointment with the 42-year-old masseuse on Feb. 21 and forced her into a back room, cops said. The heavyset predator then attacked her, according to police. He was arrested Wednesday and charged with rape, criminal sex act and menacing. A drunk driving the wrong way led cops on a chase near Kennedy Airport and smashed into four parked cars before flipping his vehicle, Port Authority Police said. Christopher Morgan, 44, was driving a 2009 Chrysler on the Belt Parkway at about 8:30 p.m. Wednesday when he swerved out of his lane and knocked into the left-side barrier, PA cops said. A witness followed the driver into JFK Airport and notified police, who spotted the car on North Boundary Road. Police said they tailed Morgan and saw him pull into a parking lot. As officers approached the car, the driver suddenly reversed and took off, sources said. Morgan allegedly started driving against traffic on the wrong side of the road, sources said. PA cops said Morgan hit a parked car at 176th Street and South Conduit Avenue and three unoccupied cars on 144th Drive. The driver then flipped his car, which landed on its side, sources said. Morgan was taken to ­Jamaica Hospital but was not seriously injured. He was charged with DWI, reckless endangerment, refusal to submit to a chemical test, reckless driving, unlawful fleeing of a police officer, resisting arrest and aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle. A Tremont dad fatally shot his ex-girlfriend in the head while at least two of his children were in the home, police said. The victim, Michelle Cox, 41, was in her Webster Avenue apartment near East 179th Street with three kids and a roommate when her ex-lover showed up at 10 p.m. Wednesday and shot her, cops said. It wasn't immediately clear if the children — ages 2, 4 and 8 — witnessed the shooting, but they were not injured, cops said. Cox's roommate, who also shares a child with the gunman, wasn't ­injured. The man was taken into custody for questioning and charges were pending. It wasn't immediately clear if he remained at the scene or if police found him nearby. Police have released a photograph of one of three people wanted for allegedly robbing a man in Williamsburg. The woman cleaned out a 60-year-old man's pockets while an accomplice had him in a chokehold, cops said. The victim was leaving a deli at Grand Street and Graham Avenue at about 4:20 a.m. Feb. 23 when the trio came up and grabbed him, authorities said. The woman went through his pockets and took his wallet, cellphone and cash, cops said. She later tried unsuccessfully to use the victim's debit card at a BP gas station on Bushwick Avenue near Flushing Avenue, law enforcement authorities said. Police have linked three men to a Harlem shooting. The suspects were caught on surveillance inside the building near the intersection of Park Avenue and East 130th Street where a 25-year-old man was shot in the stomach Tuesday at about 10:40 p.m. cops said. The victim was rushed to Harlem Hospital, where he was expected to survive, authorities said. Queens Police have arrested a man accused of raping a massage therapist at gunpoint in her Little Neck salon. Luis Jessup, 37, of College Point Boulevard, arrived for a 7:30 a.m. appointment with the 42-year-old masseuse on Feb. 21 and forced her into a back room, cops said. The heavy-set predator then attacked her, according to police. He was arrested Wednesday and charged with rape, a criminal sex act and menacing. A drunk driving the wrong way led cops on a chase near Kennedy Airport and smashed into four parked cars before flipping his vehicle, Port Authority Police said. Christopher Morgan, 44, was driving a 2009 Chrysler on the Belt Parkway Wednesday at about 8:30 p.m. when he swerved out of his lane and knocked into the left side barrier, PA police said. A witness followed the driver into JFK Airport and notified police, who spotted the car on North Boundary Road. Police said they tailed Morgan and saw him pull into a parking lot. As officers approached the car, the driver suddenly reversed and took off, sources said. Morgan allegedly started driving against traffic on the wrong side of the road, sources said. PA cops said Morgan hit a parked car at 176th Street and South Conduit and three other unoccupied cars on 144th Drive. The driver then flipped his car, which landed on its side, sources said. Morgan was taken to Jamaica Hospital, but was not seriously injured. Morgan was charged with DWI, reckless endangerment, refusal to submit to a chemical test, reckless driving, unlawful fleeing of a police officer, resisting arrest, aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle, and unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle. A Tremont dad fatally shot his ex-girlfriend in the head while at least two of his children were in the home, police said. The victim, Michelle Cox, 41, was in her Webster Avenue apartment near East 179th Street with three kids and a roommate when her ex-lover showed up Wednesday at 10 p.m. and shot her, cops said. It wasn't immediately clear if the children — ages 2, 4, and 8 — witnessed the shooting, but they were not injured, cops said. Cox's roommate, who also shares a child with the gunman, wasn't injured. The man was taken into custody for questioning and charges were pending. It wasn't immediately clear if he remained at the scene or if police found him nearby. Police have released a photograph of one of three people wanted for robbing a man in Williamsburg. The woman (pictured) cleaned out a 60-year-old man's pockets while an accomplice placed him in a chokehold, cops said. The victim was leaving a deli on Grand Street and Graham Avenue on Feb. 23 at about 4:20 a.m. when the trio came up from behind and grabbed him around the neck, cops said. The woman rummaged through his pockets and took his wallet, cellphone, and cash, cops said. The female suspect tried unsuccessfully to use the victim's debit card at a BP gas station on Bushwick Avenue near Flushing Avenue, cops said. A Bushwick man was sucker punched in an attempted robbery, police sources said. The 30-year-old victim was walking his two dogs on Linden Street and Wyckoff Avenue at about 2:20 a.m. Tuesday, when a man walked up to him and clocked him in the left eye, the sources said. The mugger rummaged through his pockets and tried to snatch his phone, but fled empty handed, police sources said. It wasn't immediately clear if the victim received medical attention or if the dogs were harmed. A description of the suspect was unavailable. A holdup man robbed a Parkchester deli at gunpoint, police said. The suspect was seen on surveillance video waving a gun at a worker behind the counter at Mike and Andy Mini Mart on Guerlain Street and White Plains Road at 2:50 p.m. last Friday, cops said. He swiped $500 from the register, grabbed two iPhones and fled, according to police. The suspect appears to be in his late 20s to early 30s and was carrying a large blue duffel bag. Two suspects robbed a Bushwick home after prying open a basement door, police said. The thieves entered the home on Putnam Avenue between 6 p.m. on Feb. 20 and 7 a.m. the next day and stole an iPad, MacBook, purse, five screw guns and other valuables, cops added. The suspects were seen on surveillance video near the scene of the crime, police said. Both are believed to be in their late 40s with thin builds. Cops slapped cuffs on two alleged subway hip-hop pole dancers on a Brooklyn Heights train, police sources said. The suspects, Robert Mathews and Aldeno Wright, both 16, and a third teen were busting moves when transit cops came by at the Hoyt-Schermerhorn station at about 7:15 p.m. last Wednesday, the sources said. Officers grabbed Mathews and Wright, but the third suspect managed to flee, the sources said. Mathews and Wright were charged with reckless endangerment, disorderly conduct and loitering, police said. Wright has four prior arrests for allegedly pulling the same stunt, the sources said. Three speedy burglars busted through the wall of a jewelry store on the ­Upper East Side and stole more than $150,000 in about six minutes, police sources said. The masked men entered Torino Jewelry on Lexington Avenue near East 60th Street at 1:06 a.m. on Feb. 23 after carving a large hole in a wall, according to police sources. The men set off an alarm that alerted the owner, who remotely logged into video surveillance at 1:09 a.m. but didn't see anything suspicious, sources said. The robbers cleaned out the display cases, taking gold jewelry and diamonds, sources said. The men were gone at 1:12 a.m. and may have used a third-floor window to escape, sources said. At 7 a.m. a neighbor saw the large hole in the wall and called police, sources said. The burglars are on the lam. A crook suspected of six robberies since January struck again last week, holding up workers at a Soho wine shop at knife-point, cops said. With a pal tagging along, the punk brandished the blade at Wine Therapy on Elizabeth Street near Spring Street at around 9:45 p.m. last Friday and swiped $1,000 in cash, said law-enforcement authorities. The suspects are described as black males in their late 20s standing about 5-foot-9. One suspect was last seen wearing a gray hoodie while the other was in a black jacket, police said. The knife-wielder is also suspected of robbing a chocolatier, boutiques and an art gallery. A stealthy thief snatched a high-end, $4,500 tool from a West Village construction site, sources said. The robber made it up to the seventh floor of condos under construction on Laight Street between Washington and Greenwich streets sometime between 10 a.m. on Feb. 18 and 2 p.m. on Feb. 23, when workers looked for their pricey plumbing device and realized it was gone, sources added. The equipment had been secured in a container, sources added. Police are investigating the death of a man whose body was found beneath the George Washington Bridge in Washington Heights Tuesday. The body was discovered in the fetal position on Riverside Drive at about 2 p.m., cops said. There were no obvious signs of trauma and the body was severely decomposed, sources said. Investigators are working with the Medical Examiner's Office, which will determine a cause of death to aid in their investigation. Bronx The NYPD is urging Bronx schools to assist in its search for a teenage suspect wanted in the rape of a 12-year-old girl last week. The suspect, believed to be 16 or 17 years old, approached the girl in the Fordham section of the Bronx while she was transferring buses on her way home from school, according to police. Cops say that while waiting for her second bus at East Tremont Avenue, the suspect grabbed the girl's arm and fooled the girl into thinking his hand was a weapon as he walked her to a nearby building and raped her. "School safety officers will be a big part of this investigation," Commissioner Bill Bratton said Monday at a press conference. A Correction officer was charged with assault and harassment after getting into an argument with a co-worker in Hunts Point Monday, police sources said. Porscha Holland, 31, was arrested while on-duty with the Department of Correction, leaving her co-worker with minor injuries and scratches. The co-worker called police, and Holland was arrested at the scene. Queens A home owner was bludgeoned to death by a worker in his Flushing basement, cops said. Kevin Lopyan, 56, was killed after a disagreement over work inside his 77th Avenue home near Vleigh Place on Feb. 14 at about 8:40 a.m., cops said. Popal Rahmatullah, 22, allegedly beat up Lopyan and then fled the home, sources said. Cops caught up with him later that day at a nearby gas station trying to fill drivers' cars for tips, sources said. Rahmatullah was found with the victim's credit card in his pocket, cops said. He has been charged with robbery, burglary and criminal possession of stolen property. Cops have identified a driver who was found dead after a car crash Sunday in St. Albans. Robert Walker, 29, of Queens, was driving westbound on the Belt Parkway near Rockaway Boulevard just after 3 a.m., when his car hit a barrier, police said. Walker was rushed to Jamaica Hospital, where he was pronounced dead just before 6 a.m., according to authorities. The exact cause of the crash is still under investigation, police said. A man claiming he had "AIDs" was busted after he attempted to steal medicine from a Tottenville CVS and threatened workers with a hypodermic needle, authorities said on Monday. Frank Andolina, 47, walked into the drug store on Page Avenue on Jan. 21 at 5 p.m. and started to take medicine from the shelves and toss them into his black back pack, according to the criminal complaint. When a worker tried to stop the thief, Andolina allegedly displayed the needle and said, "Let me go, I have AIDS, I will f–king stab you," the complaint states. After a brief struggle, the alleged thief gave up the bag of items, sources said. Andolina was charged with robbery, the complaint states. A gunman who carjacked a man in West Brighton last December has been arrested, authorities said on Monday. Harlen Smith, 29, approached the victim while he was sitting in a rented 2014 Toyota Corolla on Hendricks Avenue on Dec. 4 at about 7:30 p.m. and pulled a gun, according to a criminal complaint. Smith then took the man's wallet, cellphone and keys from his pockets before getting into the car and driving off, the complaint states. Smith was arrested on Feb. 23 and charged with robbery and grand larceny. A man was beaten and robbed by a group of men in Graniteville in February, authorities said. So far, cops have arrested just one of the alleged assailants, Sean Oliveras, 19, in the Feb. 19 attack. Oliveras and three other men beat the victim in front of 78 Richmond Terrace, causing bruising to his face, body and legs, according to court documents. The men took the victim's cellphone, cops said. Oliveras was charged with robbery and criminal possession of stolen property, court documents state. A knife-wielding man attacked a cab driver Monday in Midtown, authorities said. Port Authority cops responded to an assault shortly after 3 p.m. on Eighth Avenue and West 36th Street, where the suspect was still on the scene. The unidentified attacker was arrested and charged with assault, and the cab driver was treated for injuries at Bellevue Hospital, according to authorities. Police sources say the fight allegedly stemmed from an argument over right-of-way between a pedestrian and the cabby. Two prowlers scaled a fire escape outside a Crotona Park East apartment building and cleaned out a home there, authorities said Sunday. The crooks climbed up the side of the building on Undercliff Avenue near West 174th Street at around 3 p.m. Feb. 18 and slipped into the apartment through a window, cops said. The burglars then grabbed two watches and $1,000 cash before fleeing, police said. The thieves are believed to be in their early 20s, and each is extimated to stand around 5-foot-9. A man carjacked a livery driver at knifepoint in Morrisania, only to slam the vehicle into a school bus during his getaway, authorities said Sunday. Andrew Kearse got into the car at East 165th Street and Webster Avenue at 5:30 a.m. Feb. 2, pressed a knife to the hack's side and ordered him to keep driving, cops said. When the car reached East 185th Street and Park Avenue, Kearse, 34, told the cabby to get out, slid into the driver's seat and sped off, police said. Surveillance footage from inside the cab shows Kearse then rear-ending a school bus at East 150th Street and Melrose Avenue. Authorities said Kearse ditched the taxi and ran. He's 6-foot-2 and weighs 230 pounds, officials said. A thug shot a man on a Morrisania street, according to cops Sunday. Police said the 24-year-old victim was walking on East 169th Street near Clinton Avenue at 4:20 p.m. Friday when the assailant approached and fired a single round into his torso. The victim was listed in stable condition at St. Barnabas Hospital. The shooter ran off toward East 168th Street, authorities said. He's about 5-foot-8 and has a long black pony tail. Investigators did not identify a motive for the attack. A gun-toting goon robbed a Bedford-Stuyvesant bodega of thousands of dollars, police said Sunday. The tough walked into the Gonzalez Meat Market on Fulton Street near Buffalo Avenue at around 12:30 p.m. Thursday, pointed a gun at the clerk and demanded cash, according to cops. Authorities said the crook fled with $6,800. He is believed to be in his 20s, and approximately 5-foot-10 and 150 pounds. The same deli was robbed of $2,400 Oct. 24. Investigators have not connected the two crimes. A thief swiped a half-dozen cheap watches from a Bay Ridge drugstore and decked a worker who tried to stop him. The shoplifter pocketed the watches, worth less than $100 total, at the Rite Aid on Fifth Avenue near Bay Ridge Parkway at 7:05 p.m. Jan. 4, and headed for the door, police said. When an employee confronted him, the crook bashed him in the face, hopped into a black SUV and sped off, according to cops. The worker declined medical attention. The thief is believed to be about 6 feet tall and 160 pounds. Cops are searching for a gunman who entered an Upper West Side church and threatened "to kill people." The unidentified man entered the Advent Lutheran Church on Broadway near West 93rd Street at around 8:30 a.m. Feb. 23, cops said Sunday. He whipped out a black firearm and approached a 60-year-old man while spitting, "I'm going to kill people!" police said. The thug then fled in an unknown direction, cops added. He is described as 5-foot-8 and 180-pounds. Someone stole over $22,500 in jewelry and electronics from a Brooklyn Heights apartment, police sources said. The burglary occurred between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Schermerhorn Street pad near State Street, police said. The 23-year-old victim told cops her MacBook and designer jewelry were snatched, sources said. No one appeared to have tampered with the apartment door, according to investigators. A man tried to rob a Borough Park bank Thursday afternoon, but fled empty-handed, authorities said. The would-be crook walked into the Citibank on 13th Avenue near 55th Street just after 4:50 p.m. and slipped a demand note to a teller, according to police. The teller coolly rebuffed the demand and the thief wannabe walked off without a dime, cops said. The suspect is believed to be about 25-years-old, 5-foot-11 with a slim build. A man was arrested early Saturday in the fatal beating of a homeless man in Highland Park. Able Palmer, 36, who lives nearby, was charged with assault. He allegedly punched the 45-year-old victim, whose name was withheld, in the face, inside the park near Jamaica Avenue and Highland Place in Cypress Hills. The victim fell, banged his head on the ground, and died at Brookdale Hospital of severe brain trauma. The victim had been walking with a woman, also homeless, who was able to identify the assailant, a source said. Bronx A thief robbed a teenage boy at knifepoint aboard a 5 train rolling through Eastchester, according to cops. Police said the victim, 14, was riding the southbound train at 11:50 a.m. on Jan. 24 when the goon walked up to him, flashed a knife and demanded his cellphone. The teen turned over his iPhone, and the crook scampered off the train at the Baychester Avenue station, authorities said. The suspect is about 25-years-old, 5-foot-9 and 165 pounds. A pervert groped a teenage girl aboard a B train passing through Bedford Park, authorities said. The 13-year-old victim was riding the northbound train at 9:30 a.m. on Jan. 28 when the creep approached her and stroked her thigh, police said. He dashed out when the train rolled into the Bedford Park Boulevard station, cops said. The suspect is believed to be about 25-years-old, 5-foot-8 and 170 pounds. A motorist is facing a felony drug rap after Port Authority police pulled him over Friday afternoon. Anthony Thompson, 34, was driving on the West 179th Street approach to the span at around 12:30 p.m. when cops saw him switch lanes without signaling and pulled him over, a PA spokesman said. When Thompson said he didn't have his license on him, cops ran a check and discovered his license had been suspended more than 10 times before, the PAPD said. A plastic bag containing a pound of weed was found in the trunk, according to the PAPD. There is a $2,000 reward for help in catching the fiend who raped a 12-year-old girl in a Tremont alley. The suspect walked up to the child Tuesday near the corner of East Tremont Avenue and Southern Boulevard at 6:25 p.m., grabbed her arm, and threatened to kill her if she screamed, cops said. The perv tried to force the girl into two apartment buildings on East 179th Street, but both were locked. He finally dragged the victim to an alley on Daly Avenue, where he raped her, authorities said. After the assault, the victim took off running, and the rapist fled in the opposite direction, cops said. The suspect is believed to be in his early to mid-teens, and about 5-foot-2. Anyone with information about the suspect is asked to contact Crime Stoppers. This wasn't the work of Santa and his elves. Three burglars broke into a University Heights apartment through the fire escape on Christmas Eve, and hauled off a bed and a sofa, authorities said Friday. The 28-year-old tenant came home at 10:10 p.m. on Dec. 24 to find someone had slipped into her Tiebout Avenue home through the rear window, cops said. A surveillance camera in the hallway captured the thieves carrying the furniture out of the apartment. Two thugs robbed a Bushwick bodega at gunpoint, authorities said. The crooks burst into Halsey Convenience on Halsey Street near Broadway on Feb. 9 at 10:10 p.m. and one drew a gun on the 20-year-old clerk, cops said. The worker forked over $400 from the register to the gunman's accomplice, and the duo ran off, police said. The clerk was not injured. The suspected gunman is believed to be about 17 or 18 years old, stands about 5-foot-2 and weighs about 160 pounds. His cohort, also in his late teens, is about 6 feet and 180 pounds. Maybe he had a job interview coming up. A man has been arrested for boosting three business suits from Macy's in Downtown Brooklyn, police sources said. Fritz Mathiew, 59, walked into the department store at the Fulton Street Mall near Hoyt Street at 1 p.m. on Feb. 21 and started trying on the designer duds, the sources said. Mathiew allegedly tried to walk out of the store with the ensembles, two by Calvin Klein and one by Vince Camuto worth a total of $1,300, but security stopped him at the door and called police, sources said. It wasn't immediately clear whether the suspect put the suits in a bag or whether he was wearing them. Mathiew, of Queens, has been charged with grand larceny and criminal possession of stolen property. A man's badly decomposed body was pulled out of the East River near Murray Hill on Friday, cops said. Police were called to the ice-covered river near East 38th Street around 12:45 p.m. after someone spotted the floating body. It appears that the man died some time ago, and the corpse was too damaged to immediately determine whether there had been any foul play, sources said. The Medical Examiner's Office will determine the cause of death. Staten Island District Attorney Daniel Donovan is asking for the public's help finding an alleged drug dealer from New Brighton, who was added Thursday to the DA's "Most Wanted" list. Arthur Williams, 27, is accused of selling coke to an undercover officer at least twice before June 2, 2014, when he vanished after being indicted by a grand jury on conspiracy and criminal sale of a controlled substance charges, Donovan said. Williams, whose last known addresses are 151 Jersey St. and 24 Van Tuyl St., is part of a violent crew that peddles drugs along Jersey Street, according to Donovan. The DA said Williams stored, transported, and negotiated prices for the drugs before dealing to the undercover. People with information about Williams' whereabouts should call 718-556-7030. Callers can remain anonymous, and there is a $1,000 reward for information leading to fugitive apprehensions. A woman bashed another woman's head into a light pole in Harlem, police sources said. The suspect ambushed a 25-year-old fellow straphanger as the victim stepped out of the 145th Street subway station Wednesday at about 5:30 p.m., cops said. "You need to go home! You're just a little white girl," the attacker allegedly yelled at the victim. "Go back where you came from!" "I've lived here for 50 years," she continued, before grabbing the woman by the hair and throwing her to the ground, sources said. The younger woman tried to run away, but the assailant followed her, grabbed her hair again, punched her and slammed her head into a light pole, sources said. The victim told cops she lost consciousness and was missing a few clumps of hair, sources said. She refused medical attention. A U-Haul truck driver who was stopped by police for riding down a restricted street near the Holland Tunnel bolted from the rig before being apprehended, sources said. Travon Barrow, 23, was pulled over Wednesday at about 3 p.m. on Watts Street where there's a sign stating, "All trucks must use Canal Street," police sources said. He allegedly fled on foot, according to sources. The cop and Port Authority Police detectives chased the driver on foot, sources said. Barrow ducked into a Renwick Street construction site and was trying to scale a concrete wall, but the cops nabbed him before he made it over, sources said. "You got me!" Barrow said and then told police he ran because his driver's license was suspended, sources added. He was charged with resisting arrest and aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle. Queens Two thieves broke into a woman's Ozone Park home and dragged her out of bed before they ransacked the place, police sources said. The 29-year-old woman awoke at about 4:30 a.m., Wednesday to find two men inside her house on Pitkin Avenue and 80th Street, the sources said. They dragged her out of bed and asked, "Do you have a safe?" before plundering the place, police sources said. The suspects fled on 80th Street, with a title for a motorcycle, an iPhone 6, at least two Gucci watches, a pair of gold earrings, gold chains and gold cuff links, the sources said. The victim told police she didn't recognize the thieves. A school bus driver was charged in connection with a Forest Hills accident that killed an elderly woman, police said Wednesday. Jeanine Deutsch, 85, was crossing 108th Street at 70th Road just before 1 p.m. last Dec. 19 when Isaac Sanson, 47, turned his yellow school bus right onto 70th Road and struck Deutsch, cops said. Deutsch was rushed to Elmhurst Hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday, officials said. After Deutsch's death, Sanson, of Brooklyn, was charged with failure to yield right of way. A 93-year-old Dongan Hills woman's caregiver stole her credit card and used it to buy beer, law enforcement sources said. Donna Howard, 29, took the woman's Citibank card from her home on Carmel Court on Feb. 15, according to a Criminal Court complaint. Howard then went to Giani Foodmart on Richmond Road near Old Town Road and picked up some beer, sources said. She was charged with grand larceny, criminal possession of stolen property and petit larceny. The Staten Island DA's Office is asking for the public's help in finding a 20-year-old man wanted in the fatal shooting of a teenager in New Brighton. Mark Ortiz allegedly shot Barry Lovelace, 17, who was sitting on a couch in an apartment on Henderson Avenue at 1:45 a.m. on Feb. 16. Lovelace was hit in the arm, hand, chest and torso, and the Richmond Terrace teen was pronounced dead at the scene, DA Daniel Donovan said. Ortiz, also known as "Doo Doo," was captured on surveillance camera entering the building before the shooting and running out afterward, sources said. Investigators believe Ortiz may be hiding in The Bronx or Pennsylvania and they warned he is considered armed and extremely dangerous. A man was stabbed in the neck Wednesday during a fight while shooting pool in a Kensington bar, cops said. The 35-year-old victim, whose name was not released, was playing pool inside Denny's Bar on Beverly Road at around 3 a.m., when he began to argue with Frank Candiano, 49, and Candiano sliced his neck, police said. The victim was taken to Lutheran Medical Center with serious injuries, but he was expected to survive, authorities said. Although it's unclear exactly what the two men argued about, police said they knew each other. Candiano was arrested nearby and charged with assault, reckless endangerment, weapon possession, menacing and harassment, cops said. He has an arrest history dating back to the 1980s. Queens The meds made him do it. An accused bandit who made off with more than $2,450 from a heist at a bank in Woodside turned to a life of crime because doctors gave him the wrong medications after recent brain surgery, relatives told The Post on Wednesday. James Hellman, 35, walked into the Queens County Savings Bank on Queens Boulevard at 2:07 p.m. Monday and passed the teller a demand note, according to police. He instructed the employee not to call police, not to hit any alarms, and not to give him any dye packs, sources allege. "No one will get hurt," Hellman allegedly told the teller, adding, "Empty the drawers." Hellman then ran to a neighboring building, where a dye pack exploded and cops caught the robber red-handed, police said. Hellman was taken to the 108th Precinct station house, where he suffered a seizure, sources said. He was rushed to a hospital and later released for arraignment. Relatives sobbed outside the courthouse after springing him on bail, which was set at $5,000 cash or $10,000 bond. They told The Post they planned to take him to a doctor because "he just didn't look right." "He's a good boy," his dad said. Law-enforcement sources confirmed that Hellman has no arrest record. A thief snatched a woman's purse in Norwood, cops said Wednesday. The 38-year-old victim was walking her dog in front of Food Town at East 204th Street and Perry Avenue at around 12:30 p.m. Feb. 8 when the man walked up and pried her purse from her hands, police said. The thief swiped $50 from the purse and ditched it somewhere nearby, cops said. The victim was not injured. An enterprising crook got into a Tribeca pizza parlor by breaking through the drywall from an adjoining business and made off with $1,000, sources said Wednesday. La Bellezza Pizzeria closed for business at 6 p.m. Friday, and when workers reopened at ­­8 the next morning, they found that the register and tip box had been cleaned out, the sources added. Police investigators discovered a hole in the drywall, the sources said. Next to the register, was a printed receipt showing that the machine had been opened at around 2:15 a.m., Saturday, they said. Investigators are culling surveillance video from nearby buildings, including those at neighboring Federal Plaza, to get an image of the crook. Cops caught an alleged serial phone snatcher in Greenwich Village with nine iPhones, apparently swiped from clubgoers, in his pocket, police sources said on Wednesday. Amadou Thiam, 31, trolled the well-known club Le Poisson Rouge on Bleecker Street near Sullivan Street, pick-pocketing night owls on numerous occasions, the sources said. By the time he was finally caught inside the club at around 2:30 a.m. Saturday, he allegedly had victimized 13 people, they said. The nine cellphones had a total value of $1,800, the sources added. Thiam also allegedly had two wallets and 10 stolen credit and debit cards. He was charged with grand larceny and criminal possession of stolen property, the sources said. The bar back of a West Village burger joint punched another employee and then disappeared for more than a month, according to police sources Wednesday. Cops finally tracked down Bryan Espinal, 24, on Friday and charged over the fight he had with the 46-year-old victim inside Automatic Slims, on Washington Street near Bank Street, on Dec. 21, the sources said. Espinal allegedly hit the victim in the face with a bottle during the bar brawl, they said. The name the restaurant had on file for Espinal was mistakenly spelled Brian instead of Bryan, which made it hard for police to find him after he fled, according to law-enforcement sources. Espinal was charged with assault. A teen stabbed a 17-year-old rival in front of a Soundview bodega, cops said. The thug plunged a knife into the victim's torso outside the Motown Deli on Soundview Avenue at around 3 a.m. Sunday, police said.The victim was rushed to an area hospital, where he was in stable condition, authorities said. The attacker is believed to be between 15 and 18 and about 5-foot-6. He was wearing a black jacket. A man who had just been shot and was trying to drive himself to the hospital caught a lucky break Tuesday when he spotted an EMS crew, which happened to be responding to a call of an emotionally disturbed person, authorities said. The victim stumbled to the ambulance at East Tremont Avenue and White Plains Road and was rushed to Jacobi Hospital, where he was listed in serious condition. The 22-year-old man was in his car on Bronxwood Avenue at around 1 a.m. when a gunman shot him in the chest, cops said. Cops are hunting a hit-and-run driver who killed a Westchester man in Marble Hill. Daniel Cabrera, 38, of Cortlandt Manor, was crossing Broadway at West 225th Street at 7 p.m. Monday when he was struck by a vehicle traveling south on Broadway, police said. The victim was pronounced dead New York Presbyterian Hospital's nearby Allen Pavilion. Police are looking for a gray Dodge Magnum station wagon seen near the scene of the accident. An 18-year-old Coney Island woman was shot in the face on Tuesday, cops said. She had gotten into a disagreement with someone she knew on the fourth floor of a West 21st Street apartment building at around 9:45 a.m. The shooter let off one round, striking the woman in the face before taking off. The victim was rushed to Lutheran Hospital, and is expected to survive, according to police. The thug was wearing all black, cops said. Three men tried to steal a coin machine from the laundry room of an apartment building in Sheepshead Bay, cops said. The crooks tried but failed to rip the machine off the wall at around 1 a.m. Feb. 15, cops said. The next morning, the super found that the machine had been tampered with and spotted the men on surveillance video, police said. The thieves are believed to be in their 20s. A homeless man's pants caught fire Tuesday after he fell asleep while smoking in Chelsea, cops said. The unidentified man nodded off in the bitter cold at West 14th Street and Sixth Avenue at around 3:15 a.m., police said. He awoke with his pants in flames from the smoldering cigarette. He was not seriously injured. Queens Workers in the DA's Office had to be evacuated along with other employees in their building Tuesday after a man approached a security station there and claimed he had a bomb, officials said. "He came in and slammed a white bag down on the table in front of me," a guard told The Post. "He said, 'This is a bomb, and everybody's going to die in two hours!'" Moments later, two cops in the lobby of the building on Kew Gardens Road approached the 49-year-old man to confirm the bomb threat, the guard said. "He just stood there and said, 'Yes,' " the guard said. "He never made a move to run or anything." The man was apprehended shortly after 11 a.m., and people were let back into the building after nearly two hours. Inside the white shopping bag was an attaché case containing a computer hard drive. Sources said the man had made similar threats in the past. Another guard said the suspect pulled the same stunt there in 2008. A man made a morning appointment at a Little Neck spa — and then raped the masseuse at gunpoint, cops said Tuesday. The 42-year-old victim was met by her attacker inside the undisclosed spa on Northern Boulevard at around 7:30 a.m. Saturday and was pushed into a back room, according to police. The creep forced himself on her before fleeing, police added. He is believed to be in his 20s and about 6 feet tall with a chin-strap-style beard, cops said. A car's rear window was busted in an apparently botched burglary, a Bedford-Stuyvesant resident said. Anya Jacobson, 28, had parked her 2008 Toyota Yaris hatchback in front of the Sumner Hotel on Sumner Place near Flushing Avenue Sunday at 6 p.m. and discovered the smashed glass Monday at 9 a.m., she said. "I am shocked and infuriated to see this type of behavior still happening in this neighborhood," Jacobson said. "I feel violated, I thought we had moved beyond this as a community." Nothing was taken from the car, according to the owner. A man was found shot to death on a Canarsie street Sunday evening, cops said. Police responding to 911 calls for an assault discovered Shakim Rivera, 27, lying face up on Bayview Place near East 92nd Street at about 6:30 p.m. The man, believed to be in his 30s, was shot once in the back of the head and was rushed to Brookdale Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, cops said. A 52-year-old man was killed and a teen was wounded in an East Flatbush shooting Sunday night, authorities said. The unidentified murder victim was shot several times on East 52nd Street and Winthrop Street shortly before 11 p.m., cops said. He was taken to Kings County Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, cops said. A 16-year-old boy also was taken to Kings County Hospital in stable condition after EMS found him with a gunshot wound to the arm a block away at East 51st Street and Rutland Road, according to police. There have been no arrests and circumstances surrounding the shooting remain unclear. A man was slashed in the face outside a Midtown deli after he argued with another man early Saturday, authorities said.The dispute began inside Manhattan Gourmet Deli on Sixth Avenue at about midnight before the suspect followed the victim outside and cut him above the left eye with a boxcutter, cops said. The thug then fled south on Sixth Avenue and west on West 55th Street, cops added. The victim was taken to Roosevelt Hospital, where he was treated and released. The suspect was described as approximately 5-foot-11 and 190-pounds. He was last seen wearing a black ski hat, white sneakers and a black jacket. Queens A woman in Elmhurst was fatally struck by a box truck in a hit-and-run Sunday night, police said. The unidentified victim was in a crosswalk at Woodside Avenue around 8:40 p.m. when the 2000 Mitsubishi box truck, traveling south on 76th Street, turned left and hit the woman, police said. The driver, Valentine Gonzalez, 27, had no license and fled the scene, cops said. Police caught up with him on 73rd Street and 41st Avenue shortly after and cuffed the driver, cops said. Gonzalez was charged with leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death, and was given a violation for driving without a license. A Staten Island man allegedly spray-painted anti-Semitic and other graffiti on banks throughout New Dorp. Police sources say Vincent Rodriguez, 26, sprayed "End the Fed Jews" and "F–k Obama" on a handful of banks beginning Feb. 12 until Feb. 18. Rodriguez was charged with 11 counts of making graffiti, according to police. A Brooklyn man was busted for drunken driving in Staten Island last week, according to court sources. Carlos Sanchez, 38, allegedly registered a .126 on a Breathalyzer after cops pulled over his 2014 Kia for going 68 mph in a 50 mph zone on the West Shore Expressway, sources said. Officials said Sanchez's eyes were bloodshot and watery, and his breath smelled of alcohol. Sanchez was given another Breathalyzer at the 120th Precinct station house, where his blood-alcohol level allegedly was .116. The legal limit for driving is .008. Sanchez was booked for driving under the influence/first offense. Two crooks beat and robbed a 12-year-old boy in his Bedford Park apartment building, authorities said Sunday. Surveillance video shows the men trailing the victim into the Grand Concourse building at around 3:55 p.m. Feb. 13. The brutes punched the boy, snatched his iPhone 4, and dashed off, cops said. The youngster declined medical attention. Police are asking the public to help identify a woman wanted for stealing items from cars in Midland Beach and one vehicle in Brooklyn. The thief walks around, checking the door handles of parked cars until she finds one that's been left unlocked, cops say. Authorities said the technique, known as "handle surfing," has netted the prolific prowler pocketbooks, bank cards, cash, and cellphones from five cars since Jan. 14. The first four heists took place on Staten Island. Then, on Feb. 9, the woman raided a car in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn. The thief was caught on surveillance video using a credit card she scored in the first robbery at a CVS. A drunken driver was busted in Annadale when she crashed her pickup into a brick wall, according to a criminal complaint. Melody Hannon, 23, was driving from the Play sports bar at around 2:18 a.m. Feb. 14, when she crashed her Nissan Frontier on Amboy Road, the complaint states. Hannon told police she lost control of the vehicle while trying to pick up her cellphone, and admitted she had two or three drinks, according to the complaint. "I did drink tonight . . . tequila and pineapple," the complaint quotes Hannon as saying. Officers say they smelled alcohol on Hannon's breath and observed her swaying on her feet. She allegedly blew a .215 on a Breathalyzer, more than twice the legal limit of .08, and was charged with DWI, sources said. A sloshed man was asleep at the wheel in the West Village when an officer jolted him awake, causing him to step on the gas, police sources said. Joseph Barnes, 22, had double-parked his BMW at Hudson Street and West 14th Street at around 10:20 p.m. Feb. 14, and fell asleep with the engine running, the sources said. An officer came up and knocked on the window, while shining a flashlight into the car, the sources said. When Barnes woke up, he took one look at the officer and gunned the gas, according to police. The out-of-control car nearly ran over the officer and blew a red light before narrowly missing a taxi, the sources said. Barnes eventually came to a stop, but when the officer opened the car door to arrest him, he hit the pedal again, lurching forward, cops said. Barnes was slapped with charges of reckless endangerment, DWI, reckless driving, operating a motor vehicle impaired by drugs, and refusal to take a breath test, cops said. The manager of a West Village French bistro allegedly skimmed nearly $1,500 in cash from the restaurant, sources said Sunday. Jai Alvarez, 36, was busted Feb. 12 and charged with fudging sales records and pocketing loot from the French Roast on West 11th Street on six occasions, the sources said. He allegedly made a total of 41 "adjustments" and took home more than $1,400. Alvarez was charged with grand larceny. Two tourists were cuffed after they brawled in Times Square, police sources said Sunday. Rhys King, 23, and Ricky Clark, 21, both of Wales, got into a fight at around 3 a.m. Feb. 9 on 46th Street and Seventh Avenue, the sources said. The men kept fighting when officers tried to arrest them, the sources said. King suffered a gash to his eye and was taken to Roosevelt Hospital to be stitched up, the sources said. Both men, who were staying at the W Hotel, were slapped with summonses for disorderly conduct, the sources said. A drunken driver was busted in Noho after he passed out while double parked with the door open, sources said. Amandeep Singh, 24, was slumped over the wheel with his leg dangling from the car at La Guardia Place and West Third Street at around 4:30 a.m. Feb. 13, when cops spotted him, the sources allege. "My engine's running, but I'm not driving yet," Singh told cops when they woke him up, according to the sources. Singh refused to take a Breathalyzer test and was charged with DWI and unlawful possession of marijuana, according to court records. Queens A man struck out in his bid to rob a bank in Kew Gardens Hills Thursday, authorities say. The would-be crook slipped a demand note to a teller at the Santander branch on Union Turnpike near 150th Street at around 2:10 p.m., according to cops. The teller rebuffed his request, and the man fled empty-handed. The Flushing motorist who fatally struck an elderly woman early Friday is facing charges, police said. Ana Urena, 37, plowed into the 80-year-old victim at Main Street and Maple Avenue at 8 a.m., cops said. Urena was charged with failure to exercise due care, police said. The senior was rushed to New York Hospital of Queens where she died, authorities said. The identity of the deceased was withheld pending family notification. Urena, who remained at the scene, was issued a desk-appearance ticket. Authorities have identified a suspect in the fatal December stabbing of a Jackson Heights man. William Avila, 22, assaulted 25-year-old Steven Shimabuku at his home on 90th Street near 35th Avenue at 9:10 p.m. on Dec. 19, police said. First responders rushed Shimabuku to Elmhurst Hospital, where he succumbed to stab wounds to the torso. Avila is described as ­5-foot-4 and 160 pounds, and was wearing a camouflage jacket with a flag decal on the back. A man faces murder charges in the stabbing of his girlfriend in Fordham Manor, police said early Saturday. Delores Scott, 52, was found bloodied with multiple stab wounds in the chest and back on Davidson Avenue near West 190th Street at about 3:30 p.m. Thursday, police said. She died Friday afternoon at St. Barnabas Hospital. Her boyfriend, Brandi Simmons, 42, was arrested the night of the slaying on menacing and weapons charges. Now a manslaughter rap has been added to the earlier charges, said law-enforcement authorities. Police on Saturday released video surveillance of two men they believe are responsible for the death of a Williamsbridge man near a house of worship. The victim, Paul Dwyer, 44, was slumped over the wheel of a gray Honda Pilot on East 217th Street near Paulding Avenue at the Bronx Triumphant Church at 1:20 p.m. Thursday, cops said. Dwyer, who lived on Metcalf Avenue, took a bullet to the chest and was pronounced dead at Montefiore Hospital. The video reveals two men running down a nearby street moments after the gunplay. Dwyer had multiple arrests, which have been sealed. A thief assaulted an ­elderly staffer at a discount store in Park­chester, police said. At 1:30 p.m. Thursday, the 72-year-old victim was on duty in the store at the Cross Bronx Expressway near Newbold Avenue when he attempted to halt the suspect exiting with two unpaid-for ­T-shirts, cops said. The shoplifter punched the employee in the face and fled. The victim declined medical attention, authorities said. The suspect is about ­5-foot-10 and was last seen wearing a white T-shirt and gray pants, cops said. A man was found fatally shot in a car across the street from a Williamsbridge church, cops said. Paul Dwyer, 44, was slumped over the wheel of a gray Honda Pilot on East 217th Street near Paulding Avenue at the Bronx Triumphant Church at 1:20 p.m. Thursday, police said. Dwyer, who lived on Metcalf Avenue, had a bullet wound to the chest and was pronounced dead at Montefiore Hospital. A suspect has been arrested in a cold-blooded killing in the South Bronx, police said. Richard Kelly, 21, got into an argument with a group of men on East 152nd Street near Prospect Avenue at 10:15 p.m. on Jan. 13, cops said. One of them, Osiris ­Mosely, 25, allegedly pulled a gun and shot Kelly in the back and legs. Kelly was pronounced dead on arrival at Lincoln Hospital. Mosely has been charged with second-degree murder and criminal possession of a weapon, cops said Friday. Video surveillance captured the assailant firing several shots while closing in on the mortally wounded victim, police said. Cops have identified a person of interest in the burglary of a Kips Bay apartment. A woman was caught on surveillance camera entering and leaving a building on East 33rd Street at about 6:30 p.m. on Jan. 29 at about the time someone entered an unlocked apartment and stole a laptop computer, jewelry and cash, police said. A man was gunned down in Fort Greene, police said. Kevin Colon, 20, was at the Whitman Houses on North Portland Avenue at 2 p.m. Thursday when an unknown gunman shot him in the abdomen. EMS rushed Colon to Brooklyn Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Police did not release a suspect description or a motive. A man was fatally shot in East New York Thursday morning, authorities said. Demetrius Graham, 23, of Cleveland Street, was in an apartment on Bradford Street near Sutter Avenue with his girlfriend when she left to take her child to school, police sources said. When she returned at about 9:10 a.m., she found Graham dead with a gunshot to the head, the sources added. No suspect description was released. Police are investigating a traffic accident that left an elderly man dead in East New York. Isaak Trakhtenberg, 83, stepped off a median strip on Pennsylvania Avenue between Twin Pines Drive and Schroeder Avenue at about 1:30 p.m. Thursday and began to cross the street, cops said. A 2012 Ford Mustang driven by a 27-year-old man struck Trakhtenberg and the driver remained on the scene, according to police. The victim was rushed to Brookdale Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. The driver has not been charged but the NYPD's Collision Investigation Squad is continuing its investigation. Queens Police are looking for a man caught on camera casing a Jackson Heights school before allegedly robbing a 24-year-old man at gunpoint. The suspect was peering inside the PS 2 ­Alfred Zimberg School on 21st Avenue at about 10:40 p.m. on Jan. 7 when he turned his attention to a man, ambushing him at gunpoint, cops said. The victim turned over his cellphone and wallet, police said. The victim was not injured, and it was not immediately clear if he worked at the school, cops said. The suspect was described as ­5-foot-11 and 170 pounds with his hair in braids. He probably wasn't expecting this. An armed crook tried to rob a Bronx deli near Fordham University, but was shot by the store owner who whipped out a registered pistol, cops said Thursday. Jordan McDonald, 22, was with a pal Wednesday at 9:30 a.m. when he walked into the Al-Tair Grocery on Marion Avenue and East 194th Street, sources said. The pal was on the phone inside the deli when McDonald allegedly jumped behind the counter and pulled out a gun, the sources said. But the store owner had a quicker draw and squeezed a bullet into the would-be robber's leg before calling police, the sources added. McDonald fled and went to Montefiore Hospital for the gunshot wound, but he was caught in Eastchester Thursday at about 2 a.m. and charged with robbery, cops said. The store owner has a valid gun license in New York, according to police. A thug who beat a man to death with a crutch in Brownsville last year has been arrested, police said. Delvin Garcia was cuffed Wednesday for allegedly bludgeoning Anthony Freeman to death during a fight over marijuana last Sept. 2, cops said. Freeman, 26, and two other unidentified men began arguing with Garcia, who was attempting to buy pot inside a home on Saint Mark's Avenue, near Saratoga Avenue, the suspect allegedly confessed to police. A fight broke out and Garcia claimed he grabbed the crutch to defend himself against the trio, sources said. Two of his foes fled while Garcia, 29, allegedly continued beating Freeman until the crutch bent in the shape of the victim's head, sources added. EMS responded to a 911 call and pronounced Freeman dead at the scene. Garcia was charged with second-degree murder and weapon possession. It was not clear who, if anyone, had been using the crutch prior to the attack. Two robbers mugged a straphanger at gunpoint during a midday heist on a train rolling through the Upper West Side, cops said. The suspects asked a 26-year-old man to use his cellphone on a downtown A train last Friday at about 12:30 p.m., police said. When the victim refused, one of the thieves lifted his sweater to show the butt of a gun, cops added. The accomplice then reached into the victim's pocket and took an iPhone 6, according to police. The duo ran out of the train when it pulled into the Columbus Circle station, authorities said. A man was robbed and slashed by two criminals posing as livery cab drivers in Inwood, cops said. The 49-year-old victim was standing on Broadway near West 213th Street Wednesday at about 11:30 a.m. when the two crooks walked up and offered him a ride in a livery cab, police sources said. The victim refused and one of the men whipped out a box cutter and demanded he come with them, police sources said. The thug then lunged at the man and slashed him in the chest, leaving a 9-inch gash, police sources said. The phony hacks fled with the man's iPhone and $500 in cash, cops said. They ran north on Broadway and hopped into a late model Toyota, sources said. The muggers are both believed to be in their 30s and both of them were last seen wearing beige jackets, cops said. Queens A Kew Gardens lawyer charged with performing criminal sex acts on a teen was re-arrested inside Queens Criminal Court on the same charges when a second alleged victim stepped forward, police sources said. Eyal Katzman, 57, was in court Wednesday for the 2012 case in which he's facing sex-crime charges. Cops cuffed him after interviewing a second alleged victim, the sources said. Katzman has been charged with criminal sex act, sexual misconduct and patronizing a prostitute, police sources added. He allegedly "paid the victim $80 in cash for performing oral sex on him at his residence while her friend watched," the Queens District Attorney's Office stated. The friend was paid $20 in cash for introducing the victim to Katzman, the DA said. Katzman was awaiting arraignment on Thursday for the new charges. Cops are looking for a pickpocket who they say used a stolen debit card to buy MetroCards in Fordham. The suspect sidled up behind a deli customer on East 188th Street near Creston Avenue on Jan. 17 at about 5:45 p.m. and snatched his wallet, police said. The thief was later seen buying MetroCards inside the Fordham Road subway station, where he paid for the purchase with the victim's debit card, cops said Tuesday. The suspect is about 6-feet tall and was last seen wearing glasses, a dark blue hat and a black Pelle Pelle jacket with white stripes on the shoulders. A man is wanted in connection with a shooting Monday in Highbridge Heights, cops said. He was caught on surveillance camera following another man into an elevator in a building on Nelson Avenue, near the Edward L. Grant Highway, just before 3 a.m., cops said. The pair argued just minutes before the 21-year-old victim was shot in the stomach, police said. The wounded man was rushed to Lincoln Hospital, where he was expected to survive, authorities said. Police want to question the man caught on surveillance. He is believed to be in his early 20s. "Oh, my bad!" That's what a bumbling burglar said after he climbed into a window and realized the Bushwick apartment he entered wasn't empty, police sources said. The 54-year-old victim told police she was trying to fall asleep when she heard the window opening by her fire escape on Park Street and Broadway last Saturday at 1:10 a.m. The intruder walked into the woman's bedroom, seemed startled to see her, and blurted out, "Oh, my bad!" police sources said. The burglar then slid out the same window and fled empty-handed, sources said. The woman called 911, but the suspect was gone by the time police arrived. The burglar is believed to be about 5-foot-10 and 140 pounds. The victim was not injured. Two crooks cleaned out a cash register at a car wash in Gravesend, police said. The two suspects broke into the Classic Car Care Center on 86th Street by forcing their way through the security gate, took $300 from the register and fled in a Nissan Pathfinder last Friday at about 7:30 p.m., cops said. A robber attacked a woman who was on her way to work in Bushwick, police sources said. The 54-year-old victim was walking between Troutman and Stanwix streets last Saturday at 6:35 a.m. when the thug crept up behind her, covered her eyes and mouth, and threw her to the ground, sources said. The attacker then snatched the woman's purse and ran off with the bag, which contained $25, identification and a T-Mobile phone, cops said. He is believed to be about 20 years old, 6-foot-1 and 190 pounds. A crook knocked an elderly man to the ground in Astoria and robbed him, cops said. The 78-year-old man was buying cigarettes Tuesday at about 10:30 a.m. from a shop on 31st Street near Ditmars Boulevard when the brute bowled him over and grabbed more than $400 in cash from the man, cops said. The victim was taken to Elmhurst Hospital for back and head injuries, and was in stable condition, authorities said. The suspect is believed to be 35 years old, 5-foot-9 and 200 pounds. He was last seen wearing a black jacket with white stripes on the sleeves, blue jeans and tan boots. A Bayside home was burglarized Monday afternoon, cops said. Two men entered the basement through an unlocked door of a home near the corner of 45th Drive and Oceana Street at about 4 p.m., police said. The crooks fled with $5,000 and a laptop, cops said. It wasn't immediately clear if the 35-year-old homeowner was in the residence at the time. A graffiti vandal was caught red-handed by detectives in Midtown Tuesday, police said. The tagger was putting the word "Fuel" on public property on the southeast corner of East 45th Street and Fifth Avenue, using a can of red spray paint, at about 11:30 a.m., cops and witnesses said. Undercover detectives spotted him, tackled him and hauled him to the local police station. Charges were still pending so the tagger's legal name was not released, cops said. A tech-savvy thief cloned an ATM card and used it to withdraw $1,400 from two bank branches, cops said. The suspect used the phony duplicate of a card belonging to a 41-year-old victim to remove $700 from the TD Bank branch on Third Avenue near East 10th Street on Jan. 29, police said. The next day, the crook took another $700 from the victim's account using a TD Bank ATM on East 23rd Street near Lexington Avenue, cops said. He was last seen wearing a black hat, a leather jacket and large eyeglasses. Three muggers assaulted and robbed a man in a Harlem apartment complex, cops said. The 35-year-old victim exited an elevator in a building near the corner of West 143rd Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard on Feb. 2 at about 11:15 p.m. when the three men, wearing dark overcoats approached, cops said. The struck him in the face, grabbed his jacket and snatched other valuables, police said. The muggers fled and the victim's injuries were minor, authorities said. A young man was beaten and stabbed by a group of men in Fordham, sources said on Monday. The 22-year-old victim was walking home at about 2 a.m. Feb. 3 when he saw a pack of thugs approaching near the intersection of East 184th Street and Grand Concourse, the sources added. He tried to get around the group, but one of the assailants smashed his face with a glass bottle, the sources said. The victim ran but tripped and fell, giving another attacker the opportunity to pounce and stab him in the back and buttocks, the sources said. He was able to make it home, where relatives called police and took him to St. Barnabas Hospital, authorities said. A man who is "obsessed" with a Bushwick waitress slashed her with a boxcutter at the restaurant where she works, according to police sources. He approached the 22-year-old victim at El Rey De Pollo on Cornelia Street near Irving Avenue at about 8 p.m. Feb. 9, pulled out the boxcutter and sliced her in the back. The waitress took a taxi to Woodhull Hospital. The woman told investigators that the same man visits the restaurant several times a day and seems obsessed with her, the sources added. She said she doesn't know him personally and was never romantically involved with him. It was not immediately clear if the victim or police know the name of the suspect, who is believed to be in his 60s, 5-foot-9 and 195 pounds. A woman working the register at a Bushwick bodega was robbed at gunpoint by two men, police sources said. The 22-year-old victim was inside Halsey Convenience on the corner of Broadway and Halsey Street at about 10:10 p.m. Feb. 9 when the pair walked in and demanded cash while waving a gun, police said. One of the thugs racked the slide of the gun and one round popped out of the chamber, but the weapon never fired, the sources said. The terrified cashier forked over $400 and the thieves fled, the sources added. No injuries were reported and investigators retrieved the unspent round. One of the suspects was described as about 5-foot-2 and 160 pounds. The second suspect was described as 6-feet tall and 180 pounds. It wasn't immediately clear which one was armed. Hands off my bag! A woman in East New York refused to hand over her purse even after three robbers smashed a bottle into her face, according to police sources Monday. The 50-year-old woman was at Pennsylvania and Glenmore avenues at around 9:40 p.m. Friday, when the three brutes walked up to her and went for her handbag, cops said. She started screaming, which is when one of the men hit her with a bottle, police said. The victim's screams scared off the would-be robbers, who fled empty-handed, police sources added. She suffered bruising to her left eye, a cut to her lip and a chipped tooth, but she never let go of her bag, police said. An attacker sent a man to the hospital following a brawl in a Kingsbridge deli, according to police Monday. The thug got into an argument with the 48-year-old victim just before 5 a.m. Saturday inside of the Sedgwick Deli on Sedgwick Avenue, police said. The hothead punched the victim in the face, cutting his left eye, according to cops. The goon fled west on Kingsbridge Avenue, according to law-enforcement sources. The victim was treated at North Central Bronx Hospital, authorities said. The assailant has a thin mustache and was wearing a black wool hat, a white T-shirt, a black jacket, blue baggy pants, and gray and white Nike sneakers, police said. A 21-year-old man was shot and seriously injured inside of his Highbridge apartment early Monday, cops said. The victim was found at around 2:45 a.m. lying on the floor of an apartment at 1402 Nelson Ave. with a gunshot wound to the abdomen, according to police. He was taken to Lincoln Hospital in serious condition but was expected to survive, authorities said. The victim would not give police a description of the shooter. No arrests have been made. A teen learned a tough lesson about taking out his wallet on the street after he was robbed by four men outside of Bronx Community College, sources said Monday. The 18-year-old was on the southwest corner of University Avenue and Fame Hall Terrace at around 1:30 p.m. on Feb. 3 when four African men walked up and offered to sell him candy, the sources added. When he pulled out his wallet, the group surrounded him and forced the victim to hand over all his cash, the sources said. The thieves ran off with $400, the sources said. A madman slashed a woman's face on the Lower East Side in an unprovoked attack, according to police Monday. The 30-year-old victim was inside of an apartment building at Jefferson and Madison streets at around 1:30 p.m. on Jan. 31 when the thug approached and cut her with an unknown object, cops said. The victim screamed for help and the suspect fled, according to police. The victim was taken to Beth Israel Hospital, where she was treated for minor injuries and released, authorities said. A man was arrested after he broke into Bill's Bar & Burger in the Meatpacking District and tampered with the beer taps, cops said Monday. Henry Gianguzi, 40, broke in through the front door of the restaurant on Ninth Avenue near West 13th Street at 4:30 a.m. on Feb. 3, according to law-enforcement sources. He vandalized the beer taps, doing about $250 worth of damage, cops said. It is not clear if he intended to steal the taps or if he was drinking from them, the sources said. Gianguzi was arrested at the scene and charged with burglary. Queens Police have identified a body found in a Kew Gardens Hills basement. Kevin Lopyan, 56, of 141-27 77th Ave., was found unconscious in his home at around 8:35 a.m. Saturday with severe head trauma, cops said. He was pronounced dead at the scene. The cause of his death is under investigation.