Gideon Irving is a professional skipper of towns. Before his current tour in collaboration with the Foundry Theater, Living Here: A Map of Songs, he was traversing New Zealand on a bicycle, schlepping all of his equipment with him in a trailer, as he went looking for places to stay and perform. "I thought I'd try to gain a little sympathy from folks," Irving told me, "And see if it would help me get into their homes, if they pitied the fool who was lugging 200 pounds of instruments on a trailer over the mountain." Once he found a home for the night, he'd put on his show—a concert interlaced with stories, jokes, and improvised chat. This is Irving's practice: He is a vagabond singing storyteller, performing in people's private homes in exchange for their stories, their audience, and a bed (or a couch, or a floor) to sleep on for the night. As he travels, Irving builds his network of venues by asking audiences to write their adventurous friends' names and numbers on a map of the world. Those names and numbers become his database of venues—homes where he'll go in the future, perform, and stay the night. Irving's current show, Living Here: A Map of Songs, is taking him across all five boroughs of New York. I saw him perform on a Thursday evening on the Upper West Side in a brownstone. When I arrived at the show, I was greeted at the door of the home by an officialish woman with a clipboard (one of a number of differences between Irving's independent shows and his current collaboration with the Foundry). Upstairs, I was met by Irving, who shook my hand firmly and did that trick where you repeat someone's name to build intimacy, and also to help you remember it. He took me to the living room and introduced me to two perfect blonde twins, a boy and a girl—the hostesses' kids. "This is Jennifer," he said my name like we were old pals. (This, I would later discover, is Irving's way with people: cutting through the time-consuming small talk and speeding straight to the stage of friendship.) "She writes for VICE. But you guys probably don't know what that is." The boy shook his head, then ran down the hallway, barefoot in his own home. Irving would perform barefoot, too. I walked to the kitchen to hang up my coat on a makeshift rack, peeking around the house before settling onto a couch in the giant living room, where a basic stage and set had been placed. Irving's practice is as much an act of curious, art-sanctioned voyeurism as it is anything else. Who doesn't want to travel the world looking into people's lives? That's sort of the overriding sentiment of Irving's show: He's falling in love all the time. He's falling in love with his audience right now. As the audience settled in for the show, I found myself seated next to a dad and his preteen daughter. When I asked him how he knew about the show, he grinned, "Oh, we're great friends with Melanie!" and gestured vaguely to his right. I had no idea who Melanie was. "Of course!" I said, trying to adopt Irving's air of at-homeness. It was time for the show, which flew by like a fever dream. Irving is nothing if not charismatic, and the audience was rapt with attention—with the exception of the boy twin, who shouted up at the stage "Do maaaagic!" from his mother's lap. Irving laughed, and pointed at a singed spot in his set. "A few nights ago, I almost set the stage on fire, buddy. That's what happens when I try magic." Over the course of the 90 minutes that followed, Irving played songs that ranged from full-out ballads to ten-second riffs, playing on a guitar and an instrument that looked like a sitar and an accordion that he'd been given by a postal service worker named Joe. Irving is a versatile musician with a powerful, emotive voice. He toys with synths and beats and at one point, he asks for an iPhone from the crowd and builds a little symphony out of that shitty, tinny ditty that wakes me up every morning. He mixes the tech stuff in alongside good, old-fashioned acoustic strings. Think of Irving as the lovechild of The Tallest Man on Earth and Ben Folds. But louder. Irving's art is about his travels and he travels for his art. His songs are about the people he's met and the places he's stayed. And his philosophy is simple. "People ask, 'But don't you wanna put down roots?' Yes!" he says to the audience. "But I wanna put them down everywhere." Irving doesn't want kids, he explains in the show. He wants his audiences to have kids, though, kids who he can stay with and perform for, when they're grown. "People ask, 'But don't you wanna fall in love?'" Irving pauses. "I fall in love all. The. Time." While the notion of the traveling troubadour could trace its roots back by millennia, Irving was inspired by Julian Koster, a modern-day vagabond singer and circus performer. "I started traveling in late 2011, after seeing [Koster] perform a show in a home. It opened my eyes to the idea of homes as a venue. I wanted to give that a go, and my best friend Hubcap told me that New Zealand would be a great place to try building a new show in people's homes because when acts go on tour over there, no one ever plays small towns." When Irving would arrive on the other side of a mountain or valley to small New Zealand towns, he was almost always met with a warm welcome. "People were so happy that I'd worked so hard to get where they were," he told me. "They were very hospitable; it allowed me to develop a show and a practice." Irving performed to a community of Māoris, the indigenous Polynesians of New Zealand. He even stayed in family home next door to the current Māori King, Tuheitia Paki. "It was interesting," Irving reminisced, "I got to go on a little tour of the palace and the traditional royal meeting ground. It was very ornate; whenever dignitaries are visiting, they entertain them there. But when they don't have any foreign guests, the king just lives in this little house next to all these other families and people see him on the street and call him 'King!'" Back in the United States, he continued to travel and gather more material for his art, performing in places that ranged from the most expensive apartment in America (the subject of one of the songs in his latest show) to a geodesic dome in the Redwoods. In the middle of his show, Irving sings about his life spent multitasking. When you've met as many people has he has, and you're trying to keep in touch with them all while on the road, corners get cut in the service of postcards and stamps. While singing "Postcard" (I just want a little more love / from a lot more people all the time / I want to be everyone's favorite / and favorite them every and all to be mine ... from Norway to Jersey, Phoenix to Turkey, Paris to Palestine), Irving hopped around the audience to deliver postcards to a few of us. Mine read: As he closed out his show, Irving took an unexpected, but moving, turn towards the traditional, crooning out a slow rendition of "There's No Business Like Show Business." And when Irving sang, "Everything about it is appealing... everything the traffic will allow..." I know he meant it. This is a man who spends up to six hours a day driving and biking alone on foreign roads, before hopping on stage to do his show. When I spoke with Irving a few days after his show, I asked him what story he's trying to tell his audience. He didn't miss a beat. "To be unreasonable," he said. "Everything I've done since beginning this project has seemed kind of silly, and maybe too difficult or complicated to get done. But I've found that when I commit to that kind of idea, and share it with other people, they get excited about it and want to be a part of it. And once you've done one unreasonable thing, people have a little more faith in you. That faith has given me a lot of strength and confidence to not shy away from any absurd idea. I want to build an elaborate show that's performed for just one person each night. It's incredible to see people inspired and responsive to taking risks, to inspire them to do unreasonable things themselves." There are 51.2 million refugees in the world who've had to abandoned their homes, their countries, and the lives they built in hopes of finding a better existence somewhere else. Some of these people have suffered gang rapes, been locked in a cell and beaten for days on end, or had to watch as their entire family was slaughtered. This kind of intense trauma obviously merits some time on a therapists couch. However, in and around the sprawling camps that have emerged to support the growing refugee populations in Jordan, Turkey, Kenya, and around the world, very few receive the psychological support they desperately need. The consequences of this neglect can have very real security implications, along with the obvious humanitarian ones. "There is probably no group of people more in need of psychological care than refugees," United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Melissa Fleming told me in an email. "They are traumatized by violence and scarred by loss. And very often, their uncertain life in exile exposes them to more challenges than they are mentally prepared to handle." An oft-overlooked aspect of the bleak lives of refugees is the security threat their untreated trauma can pose. The psychological neglect of desperate refugees gives recruiters for extremist groups like ISIS and Boko Haram an opportunity to use intense emotional turmoil as a recruitment tool. "One of the key concepts that has emerged in the study of radicalization is that of the cognitive opening," explained Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, Head of Research and Information at the International Center for the Study of Radicalization. "It's a moment in someone's life that makes them question their identity, their understanding of the world. That moment can be a natural progression for someone who never integrated into society, but it can also be sparked by a traumatic event." Children and teenagers are particularly likely to find their cognitive openings steering them towards violence. "There is clear evidence that at any age, but particularly as an adolescent, when you don't have access to school or dignified forms of employment, you are at risk of being exploited and tempted into anti-social behavior," Robinson said. "When you have a trauma-related disorder, you may be so disturbed as a young person that you want to go back to Syria to fight," Dragoul agreed. Recruiters know this. As Meleagrou-Hitchens elaborated, "Areas near refugee camps, many of which have now become permanent towns, are major recruitment grounds." Another factor complicating access to treatment is the stigma surrounding mental health in many refugee communities. Robinson once treated migrant workers on the Thai-Burma border, many of whom had been victims of torture. She learned quickly that "if you had a clinic with a sign over the door that said 'Mental Health Clinic,' no one would go. Mental health was for 'crazy' people." But perhaps the most significant reason refugees' psychological needs are so vastly unmet is because of the intangible nature of those needs. "There is not a lot of funding or attention given to mental health," Robinson said. "The priorities are food and medicine and shelter, and basic protection against forced repatriation. Mental health is seen as a 'softer' service, like education or reproductive health." Unlike other priorities, the outcome of offering psychological counseling is uncertain. If you give someone food, they will not starve. If you give someone heated shelter, they will not freeze to death. If you give someone counseling, they may still be depressed, abusive, or recruited by militants. Donors and relief agencies seek to spend their limited resources on initiatives that are as risk-free as possible. Counseling, however important, offers far from certain redress. But investing in refugees' mental health could have a significant positive impact on these sprawling populations, in the long run. Refugees treated for trauma might re-acquire the cognitive capacity to re-build their lives, to move out of camps and into more stable lives. It is highly unlikely that those who do not get treatment will be able to do so. People who feel vulnerable and shattered will turn to whoever makes them feel safe. Offering refugees psychological care is one way to make civil society seem more like that safe haven, rather than the ever-welcoming arms of the world's extremist recruiters. In many professions, "fake it 'til you make it" is a time-honored method of breaking into the industry. In law enforcement, however, it can also be a class B felony, as a New Hampshire teenager learned earlier this week. On Wednesday, 19-year-old Chance LaCasse was arrested for allegedly impersonating an officer after leaving King Kone Ice Cream in Merrimack, WMUR reports. According to police, LaCasse was spotted driving a a blue Ford Explorer and wearing a jacket with New Hampshire State Police patches and a "visible handgun" at his hip. On Friday, Vocativ discovered photos from LaCasse's Instagram account revealing the teen's apparent fixation with law enforcement, showing him posing with various police-related paraphernalia, including uniforms, flak jackets, a pet German Shepherd and a 9mm Glock pistol registered in his name. "People ask all the time why I carry a gun," LaCasse captioned one photo. "It's simple. I'll do anything to protect what I love. #glock #9mm #2ndamendment" In a recent interview with Yahoo! Makers about her Easter plans, Kristin was asked, "Do you have any secrets to preparing the house for the family to come over on Easter?" Kristin's answer began with the following sentence: "I definitely don't have any secrets." According to the New York Daily News, Harvey Weinstein seemed to confirm that he came into physical contact in an inappropriate way with Italian model Ambra Battilana in a phone call with her that was being monitored by police. Last week, Battilana told police that Weinstein had grabbed at her breasts and genitals in what the Daily News characterized as a "casting couch come-on." "She said something to the effect that she was uncomfortable with him doing that," a source told the Daily News. "And he said something to the effect, 'It won't happen again.'" No charges have been brought against Weinstein. The comments, the Daily News' source clarified, were not a confession, but seemed to confirm that what Battilana has accused Weinstein of did take place. Clint Eastwood's latest directorial effort, the follow-up to 2011's J. Edgar, adapts the Tony Award-winning musical Jersey Boys, bringing the Broadway hit to the silver screen for the first time. Both the musical and the film tell the story of The Four Seasons' rise to stardom in the 1960s with a string of No. 1 singles, including "Sherry," "Big Girls Don't Cry," and "Walk Like a Man." As in the musical, all those fan-favorite tunes are included in the film—as is the group's surprising relationship to the Italian Mafia. But just how faithful to the Four Seasons' story is Eastwood's interpretation? For the most part, it's doesn't stray far from the musical or from the true story on which it's based. (Marshall Brickman and Rick Elice, who wrote the musical, also wrote the film's screenplay.) But it does take some liberties with the musical, which itself did a lot of what original bandmember Bob Gaudio calls "juxtapositioning." Below, we break down what's fact and what's fiction—and you might not believe what's actually true. (Note: If you're not familiar with The Four Seasons' story, this post does spoil some of the film's major events.) Before The Four Seasons were The Four Seasons, they performed under many different monikers, most notably as The Four Lovers, at local New Jersey clubs like The Strand, as seen in the film's beginning. And one key move that helped the band take off was the addition of Bob Gaudio, a songwriter who'd garnered some popularity for 1957's "Short Shorts." In the film, Joe Pesci (the same Joe Pesci that went on to star in Goodfellas and My Cousin Vinny, though he's played here by Joseph Russo) hassles Tommy DeVito at a bowling alley about Gaudio, whom he claims he discovered, insisting that the group meet with him. Unbelievable as that all might sound, Pesci really is a New Jersey native and had been a longtime friend of the group in their early years. And he actually was responsible for Gaudio joining what became the Four Seasons and even appeared on stage at the 2006 Tony Awards with the group's surviving members to remind audiences of that point. Not much later, we see the band outside a bowling alley—having just been rejected from a gig there—arguing about their name. All of a sudden, the alley's previously broken neon sign lights up to reveal the name The Four Seasons, and the guys have a collective epiphany that that'll be the name they perform under from that point on. It admittedly comes off like a cheesy plot device meant to segue to the story's success chapter, but they really did get their name from that bowling alley. (Not from Vivaldi, as you might assume.) Before The Four Seasons were The Four Seasons, they performed under many different monikers, most notably as The Four Lovers, at local New Jersey clubs like The Strand, as seen in the film's beginning. And one key move that helped the band take off was the addition of Bob Gaudio, a songwriter who'd garnered some popularity for 1957's "Short Shorts." In the film, Joe Pesci (the same Joe Pesci that went on to star in Goodfellas and My Cousin Vinny, though he's played here by Joseph Russo) hassles Tommy DeVito at a bowling alley about Gaudio, whom he claims he discovered, insisting that the group meet with him. Unbelievable as that all might sound, Pesci really is a New Jersey native and had been a longtime friend of the group in their early years. And he actually was responsible for Gaudio joining what became the Four Seasons and even appeared on stage at the 2006 Tony Awards with the group's surviving members to remind audiences of that point. Not much later, we see the band outside a bowling alley—having just been rejected from a gig there—arguing about their name. All of a sudden, the alley's previously broken neon sign lights up to reveal the name The Four Seasons, and the guys have a collective epiphany that that'll be the name they perform under from that point on. It admittedly comes off like a cheesy plot device meant to segue to the story's success chapter, but they really did get their name from that bowling alley. (Not from Vivaldi, as you might assume.) During the 1950s and 1960s in Newark, the Four Seasons' hometown, the Italian Mafia and other organized crime networks ran the city's streets. At that time, it was easy for anyone, even a mild-mannered singer like Valli, to get mixed up in their dirty work—especially with Tommy DeVito, who had a long rap sheet and spent time in prison, in your inner circle. In the film's beginning, DeVito is seen working part-time as a driver for Angelo "Gyp" DeCarlo (Christopher Walken), a powerful member of the Genovese crime family, and is a close confidant of his. From there, Gyp pops up frequently to save Valli and DeVito from whatever impossibly deep hole they've dug for themselves. But what was Gyp's real role in the group's career? DeVito once described him as a "really, really, good friend," while Valli took his affection a bit further, calling Gyp "like a father to me." Before DeCarlo's death in 1973, he did indeed watch over the group, acting as their unconventional mentor, particularly to Valli and DeVito, there to make any problem disappear by whatever means necessary. He did, truly, orchestrate that pivotal deal shown in the film between Valli, Gaudio, and the loan shark Norm Waxman that absolved DeVito of his $1 million debt and sent him packing to Las Vegas in 1970—DeVito, on his end, agreed to quit the group and allow Valli and Gaudio to buy his shares, thus ending the original Four Seasons. And as for that out-of-character scene in which Walken awkwardly weeps to Valli's rendition of "My Mother's Eyes"—it's 100 percent true, according to the film's screenwriters. As in the movie, Frankie Valli and Mary Delgado married at a young age in the late '50s. The marriage didn't last and after they divorced in 1971, Valli remarried twice, first to Mary Ann Hannigan in 1974 and then to Randy Clohessy 10 years later—though the two have since divorced. "If you're in show business, your partner has to understand they'll always come second," Valli explained to the Daily Mail. Those marriages are not included in the film, nor are his five children with Clohessy. The focus is, instead, on his three daughters with Delgado. One of the film's most tragic moments comes when Valli and his first wife's troubled teenage daughter, Francine, dies from an accidental drug overdose just before she's set to break into the music industry herself and record a few songs with Crewe. That, sadly, did happen in real life in 1980. What isn't depicted in the film is that six months prior to Francine's death, Valli's stepdaughter, Celia, was also tragically killed in a fall from her apartment fire escape. That particular event isn't included in the Jersey Boys musical either, and writer Rick Elice explained why in an interview with Vegas Seven: "If you put that in the show, no one would believe it. It would be too horrible and seem like it was fiction." By the time the group started to fall apart in the early '70s—Nick Massi had already left in 1965, unlike in the film—DeVito takes most of the blame. Prior to the DeCarlo-arranged deal, the film gives off the impression that The Four Seasons were riding high with a successful tour and popular hits. And that was true, up until their last album, The Genuine Imitation of Life Gazette, a concept album that wasn't well received. After that, the band struggled to again strike gold until 1975's Who Loves You—but that brief struggle is largely omitted from the film. There's also the matter of the band's 1965 arrest in Cleveland after the Ohio State Fair, explained by Massi in the film as the group's final straw with DeVito. (He'd allegedly skipped out on a Holiday Inn bill there the year before.) That arrest did happen, but not quite as it's laid out in the film; they were actually arrested in Columbus, not Cleveland, and spent the night in jail in Springfield. But Elice and Brickman say the location switch was necessary to "bookend the band's moment of shame with a later moment of glory"—that being the band's 1990 return to Cleveland for their induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. That, of course, really did happen. My cat is kind of a dickhead. His name is Alfie and he bites and scratches everyone, usually around the eyes and the jugular. Most people hate him, but I know that deep down he's a good guy. He just needs some therapy or something. In an effort to find what that something might be, I stumbled across a site on holistic animal healing. As you'd expect, this is basically an extension of human-based alternative medicine and includes stuff like chakra cleansing, which is about purifying centers of power in the body; and Reiki, which is an energy-focused healing treatment that is usually done by touch. I discovered there was a cutely-named clinic nearby me called Pawsitive Animal Therapies that offered these remedies for "pets that exhibit behavioral or emotional issues such as stress, anxiety, fear, or aggression." It sounded like my answer. I squashed Alfie into the cat box and off we went. Melissa, the owner and therapist behind Pawsitive met us at a nondescript building, but then lead us down an alleyway, through an unmarked wooden door, and into an average looking backyard. There was a shed in the corner and Melissa beckoned us inside. With Alfie still in his box, I offered some facts about his age, weight, exercise, diet, and general ill temperament. Melissa recommended Reiki and a massage to help chill him out. Then she laid him across the table, closed her eyes, and lay her hands on his fur. The room was silent and Alfie lay uncharacteristically still. Things seemed to be going pretty well. In 2012, which is the year of the last study, Australians spent an estimated $1.2 billion dollars on "other" pet care services. This included such services as fitness classes, photography, as well as pet therapy like the one I tried. Dogs received the bulk of these expenditures, but felines still got a sizeable chunk of $16 million, spread among about eight percent of the nation's cats. However, dog owners from New South Wales, where I'm from, are the ones most likely to indulge in pet therapy. So although he didn't know it, Alfie was pretty damn lucky. He obviously didn't know it because he started hissing. "If he's going to be like that," murmured Melissa, "I'll have to do Reiki from a distance." She sat still with her palms facing up, breathing deeply. Alfie went for a bit of a walk. According to Melissa, Alfie's problems stem from his childhood. "Being taken away from his mother at such a young age diminished his heart chakra," she explained. "He was never shown a family hierarchy so he now mistakenly believes that he's the head of your family. It's like he thinks he's a human." At this signal, Alfie elegantly lifted his leg and started licking his balls. To distract from the awkward ball-licking, I asked Melissa how she got into animal Reiki. She explained that she'd grown up on a farm and always loved animals, but found putting them down as a vet too disturbing. She wanted to help animals holistically. Like a lot of therapists, she does that through massages, Bowen Therapy (cross-fibre massage), Craniosacral therapy (head and spine work), and Reiki (energy healing). "I prefer to be next to the animal," said Melissa with her palms still out. "But I find Reiki from a distance works just as effectively." She went on to explain that the animal doesn't even need to be in the room. Sometimes animals can be as far away as the US and the process is still the same. "I get clients to send a photo of their pets and I can perform the treatments telepathically," she said in a matter of fact voice. Meanwhile Alfie had chilled out completely. Melissa's diagnosis was that his head and heart chakra were in competition with each other. This was why he showed affection but didn't want to look weak. Typical cat. And with that, the session was over. In the car ride home, Alfie made a horrendous noise like a vacuum cleaner sucking up a fork. It was vicious and awful, but that night he cuddled me in bed. That's never happened before. And although he's been meowing a lot recently, he does seem calmer. I was suspicious but I'll admit it: I think something weird happened in that shed. I can't explain it, and Alfie won't say anything about it, but he's definitely become a nicer pet. Speaking to Geraldo Rivera on his WABC radio show this week, Donald Trump revealed that he and the mayor have not met in person, the New York Post reports. "Donald seemed perplexed by it, and not a little bit hurt," Rivera said. Rivera apparently offered to introduce the two men, which would have been gracious if de Blasio ever appeared on Rivera's show, which he hasn't, because why would he. "He refuses to talk to me. We ask him every other week," Rivera said. "But if de Blasio did agree to come on the show, he'd be late anyway." Nice. "Doesn't that say a lot, that the mayor hasn't met the biggest, most important developer in town?" Rivera said. Nope! Well, maybe, but Trump is not actually the biggest, most important developer in town—not even close. "I think the big picture is, the mayor exists in his own little bubble," Rivera said. "He has to expand his world if he wants to represent the entire city." Hah, hmm, okay. After a Maryland man allegedly stripped naked, broke into a neighbor's apartment, punched a mother and tried to steal her child, the suspect's roommate attributed the episode to "bad weed" and suggested it was not his fault, WJLA reports. Paul Mounombi faces charges of assault, home invasion and destruction of property for the March 25 incident, which authorities say began when he removed his clothes and started running through a Rockville-area apartment complex at around 2 p.m. From WJLA: According to police, the 22-year-old smashed air conditioning units with dumbbells, and then used a lawn chair to shatter his neighbor's ground-floor apartment window. Upon crawling inside, still buck naked, Mounombi reportedly tried kidnapping a baby girl. Police say he then punched and choked the infant's mother, while shouting, "Call me your king!" and "Bow to me!" Mounombi also turned on the victims' kitchen stove burners and oven broiler. Responding to several 911 calls, police reportedly found Mounombi "pacing and panting" in a nearby forest and took him into custody. When speaking with both reporters and police, Mounombi's female roommate blamed his behavior on drugs, defending Mounombi as "an upstanding citizen." Mounombi was reportedly evicted from the apartment complex after his arrest. In 1993, Danny Resnic was having anal sex during a casual hookup in Miami Beach when his partner's latex condom broke. Resnic had been using condoms ever since the man he describes as "my best friend and love of my life" died from AIDS in 1984. "I have always been looking for a monogamous relationship and was never really happy with casual sex," he says, but in the gay subculture of Miami Beach, where he'd moved from California in 1991, casual sex was the norm. When Resnic slept with men he didn't know, he insisted on condoms. After several weeks of worrying about the broken condom, Resnic got tested for HIV. The test came back positive. The odds of contracting HIV from a single act of unprotected anal sex are extremely low—experts put the risk below 1 in 100. "I couldn't believe it," Resnic says today. "'Cause I was really vigilant. I lost all my friends during the AIDS crisis, and I used condoms religiously. And then when one broke, I thought, 'How could that happen?' " Resnic became obsessed with answering that question: He read everything he could find about condoms at his local public library in Miami. He learned how latex condoms are made (by dipping phallic molds into vats of liquid latex, which is peeled off after it dries), and how they are regulated (the Food and Drug Administration considers condoms medical devices and dictates how they are manufactured and labeled). He discovered that three publicly traded companies—the makers of LifeStyles, Durex, and Trojan—controlled almost the entire market. And he figured out that, since the introduction of the rolled latex condom in the 1920s, not much about condoms had changed. I met Resnic for lunch in Los Angeles last September and was struck by his intensity all these years later. To illustrate his astonishment at what he'd learned about condoms, he gestured at the salt and pepper shakers and bottle of olive oil between us. "Everything on this table—these jars, these nozzles—every year they come out with a better product," he said. "But not the condom! And I found that baffling. I couldn't understand it. I was like, 'I don't get it. Why haven't they made some crazy new design? Why is it still the same thing, and no one likes it?' " Resnic decided to rectify the problem. He set out to build a better condom—one that he hoped would make protected sex feel as good as unprotected sex (a guy can dream!), and one that wouldn't break like the one that broke on him. Resnic set aside everything he'd learned about latex condoms and tried to start from scratch, asking: What might a condom look like if it were designed with pleasure in mind, instead of mass production and profit margins? He had taken some product design classes in college, but didn't know much about biomedical engineering. He spent years thinking, sketching, and researching patents. In 2001, Resnic bought some wood at Home Depot, carved it into a mold with a jigsaw, sanded it down, dipped it in liquid latex, and created the first prototype of his condom in his home, which was, at the time, a house boat on Marina del Rey. But Resnic didn't want to stick to latex. He began experimenting with silicone—the flexible, durable material found in spatulas and charity awareness bracelets. He found a silicone manufacturer to formulate a recipe with the precise combination of tensile strength and elasticity he was looking for, and then found a medical device manufacturer to make silicone prototypes. Using grant money from the National Institutes of Health, he conducted small clinical trials with condoms that fit much more loosely than latex condoms, designed to be pulled on like a mitten instead of rolled on, allowing freedom of movement inside, and to provide sensation for men from the interior of the condom, which is lubricated. (In 2014, a former employee accused Resnic of misusing NIH funds; Resnic denies the allegations.) All the while, Resnic kept tweaking. He says he's developed more than 127 versions of what he now calls the Origami condom, because it is folded rather than rolled. "The whole concept of the rolled condom is flawed," Resnic told me shortly before asking our server for a Mediterranean lamb burger. "The premise is transferring sensation through the material. That's equivalent to trying to taste your lunch with Saran wrap on your tongue." Resnic is not the only one who has been trying to build a better condom. In November 2013, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation began distributing $100,000 grants to teams of researchers who'd submitted proposals for "the Next Generation of Condom." The Gates Foundation hopes that at least one of the grantees will develop a product that men in the developing world want to use, which will consequently have "substantial benefits for global health, both in terms of reducing the incidence of unplanned pregnancies and in prevention of infection with HIV or other STIs." The winning proposals include Resnic's; a condom made of graphene, which is a form of carbon that's a single atom thick; a condom incorporating plant-based antioxidants; and an "ultra-sheer wrapping condom" made of polyethylene, a type of plastic often used in packaging. Meanwhile, in 2014 a California inventor raised more than $100,000 on the crowdfunding site IndieGoGo to develop the Galactic Cap, a condom designed to fit snugly on the head of the penis while leaving the shaft bare. Most people do not like latex condoms. The vintage version of Resnic's Saran wrap metaphor is that using a condom is like taking a shower with a raincoat on. Latex condoms can cause pain and irritation in men and women with latex allergies or sensitivities. They're difficult and time-consuming to unroll in the heat of the moment. Condoms squeeze some men's penises uncomfortably; for other men, they're too long or prone to slipping off mid-coitus. Latex decreases sensation, doesn't warm up easily, and smells and tastes funny. For a paper called " 'And Isn't That the Point?': Pleasure and Contraceptive Decisions," published in Contraception last year, Gallaudet University sociologist Julie Fennell interviewed 30 men and 30 women about their experiences with condoms. "The most enthusiastic endorsement that several people … offered was, 'They don't bother me,' " writes Fennell. "Both women and men mentioned disliking the smell, taste, feeling, inconvenience, and sense of wastefulness of condoms." Fennell drew the title of her paper from something a woman named Millie said, "It's not the same feeling, it's not the same closeness. It doesn't feel as good. And isn't that the point?"  It's not just that a lot of people don't like the way latex condoms feel. They also don't use them. In the 2010 National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior, the largest-ever nationally representative sexuality study, 45 percent of men and 63 percent of women who'd most recently had sex with a "new acquaintance" hadn't used a condom. More alarmingly, 75 percent of women who weren't using a back-up birth control method reported not using a condom the last time they'd had sex. Adults who'd had anal sex in the past year—the highest-risk sexual act with regard to HIV transmission—said they'd used condoms only 20 percent of the time. Unsurprisingly, there's a correlation between not liking condoms and not using them: The authors of a 2007 study of condoms and sexual pleasure wrote, "Men who believed that condoms reduced pleasure were less likely to use them." And in a 2013 study in which researchers interviewed men who used condoms inconsistently, "By far the most frequently reported downside of using a condom was diminished physiological sensation." It's this connection that inspired the Gates Foundation to get involved. As a program director for the Gates Foundation wrote in a blog post about the condom grants, "It may seem obvious, but the success and impact of any public health tool hinges on that tool being used consistently and correctly by those who need it." This is as true in America as it is in sub-Saharan Africa—in spite of the availability of birth control and treatments for STIs, America has the highest rates of unintended pregnancies and HIV transmission in the developed world. From a public health perspective, condom effectiveness is a numbers game. As Ron Frezieres, a Gates grantee who has designed and executed clinical contraceptive trials for more than 30 years, says, "Even if a condom had twice the breakage rate … but everybody loves it, it enhances sex—maybe that's really incredible, to get 100 percent product utilization of a product that breaks 2 percent [instead of] a 50 percent utilization of a condom that breaks 1 percent." Condom compliance—the ability and willingness to use condoms consistently and correctly—has always been a big problem. The Gates Foundation knows it, and so do all of us who've decided to just chance it during sex, even when the Trojan is sitting right there on our bedside table. A more enjoyable condom—a condom that people want to use—could significantly reduce STIs and unwanted pregnancies, both in America and abroad. So why hasn't the always unpopular latex condom ever faced any serious competition in the condom aisle? Why, after all these years, is latex still king? In 1960, the Food and Drug Administration approved the birth control pill for contraception, giving women a reliable means of controlling their fertility for the first time ever. The introduction of antibiotics in the 1930s and '40s had already made gonorrhea and syphilis simple to cure, and other venereal diseases (as STIs were called at the time) were treatable or manageable. This all meant that most Americans, straight and gay, were willing to take their chances on unprotected sex. Condom sales plunged. "Between 1965 and 1970, condom use declined 22 percent," reports sociologist Joshua Gamson in his essay "Rubber Wars." "From the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s, U.S. condom sales fell by half." In 1981, the Centers for Disease Control identified a disturbing trend that gay men in New York, San Francisco, and Los Angeles already knew about: Young, healthy-seeming gay men were dying, often suddenly, from rare forms of pneumonia and cancer. "Gay-related immune deficiency," as researchers first dubbed AIDS, was as poorly understood as it was terrifying. In the absence of scientific consensus, a doctor and researcher named Joseph Sonnabend theorized that AIDS was the cumulative effect of repeated exposure to various STIs. This theory went further than suggesting that promiscuity increased one's odds of getting AIDS—it suggested that promiscuity was the cause of AIDS. This was not a popular idea among the gay men of Greenwich Village, who had embraced sexual liberation as a means of defying heteronormative strictures, and who saw bathhouses and sex clubs as safe spaces. (Shortly before the outbreak of AIDS, one gay activist infamously said, "Gay men should wear their sexually transmitted diseases like red badges of courage in a war against a sex-negative society.") But it was Sonnabend's soon-discredited theory that led to the rise of safe sex as we know it. In the summer of 1982, Sonnabend introduced his patient Michael Callen to his other patient Richard Berkowitz, hoping they could help spread his message. Berkowitz was a writer who made his living primarily as an S&M hustler; Callen was a singer who estimated he'd slept with 3,000 men in his 10 years living in New York City. Both men turned 27 that year, and both found hope in Sonnabend's hypothesis: If promiscuity had made them sick, then perhaps changing their sexual practices could make them well. In his 2003 memoir, Stayin' Alive: The Invention of Safe Sex, Berkowitz recalls telling other men with AIDS symptoms, "My doctor told me that I can get better and avoid progressing to full-blown AIDS if I stop fucking around and give my body a chance to heal from years of taking recreational drugs and getting sexually transmitted diseases." Callen and Berkowitz wanted to spread the word, and thought their own licentious histories made them the perfect messengers. Their first attempt at advocacy didn't go over well. "We Know Who We Are," an essay published in the gay newspaper the New York Native in November 1982, declared, "The present health crisis is a direct result of the unprecedented promiscuity that has occurred since Stonewall" and offered little practical advice about continuing to have sex in the age of AIDS. Callen and Berkowitz were inundated with hate mail from their peers and accused of being "sex-negative propagandists." Berkowitz and Callen's second attempt, a 1983 booklet called How to Have Sex in an Epidemic: One Approach, set aside the judgmental language and offered an idea few gay men had previously considered: Use condoms. In 1983, the idea that gay men would have sex with condoms was a joke. One lone health clinic in New York, the Gay Men's Health Project, had attempted to distribute condoms in bathhouses in the 1970s, but they found few takers. According to one of the clinic's founders, gay men of that era thought of condoms as a contraceptive for straight people and many of them "had no idea how to use them." Callen's former partner concurs: "Condoms were basically completely foreign to 99 percent of gay men," he told filmmaker Daryl Wein in the 2008 documentary Sex Positive. "So, yeah, the idea that gay men would have sex using condoms was revolutionary." Today, the idea that gay men should wear condoms to protect themselves from HIV is a given—although the advent of Truvada, a daily pill that can protect people who take it from HIV infection, may change that. Many of the lessons of How to Have Sex in an Epidemic are familiar to anyone who's ever taken a decent sex-ed class. But some of the book's messages surprised me. For one thing, instead of telling men to use condoms and leaving it at that—like, say, the CDC does on its current webpage about gay and bisexual men's sexual health—Berkowitz, Callen, and Sonnabend offered alternative methods of mitigating risk, like pulling out to ejaculate at the end of intercourse, and spitting after performing oral sex. (Today, spitting and swallowing are considered equally low-risk, while letting semen linger in your mouth might increase your risk of getting HIV.) They acknowledged that these practices are riskier than using a condom, but they seemed more interested in meeting sexually active gay men where they were than in preaching about ideal behaviors. As the safe-sex message spread from Greenwich Village to the rest of the country, the nuance of How to Have Sex in an Epidemic got lost. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, the Reagan appointee legendary for speaking frankly about AIDS and sex in spite of his evangelical background, began talking about condoms in 1986. In his "Surgeon General's Report on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome," Koop wrote: "If you jointly decide to have sex, you must protect your partner by always using a rubber (condom) during (start to finish) sexual intercourse (vagina or rectum)." America, terrified of the disease that had already killed almost 25,000 people, listened. Between 1986 and 1987, condom sales at drugstores jumped 20 percent nationwide, according to a study published in the American Journal of Public Health. The New York Times catalogued the revived interest in condoms in a 1986 article titled "Back to a Basic Contraceptive," which profiled an "attractive" widow named Anne who bought a packet of condoms "despite some embarrassment caused by the proximity of two youths to the drug store counter and her confusion at the variety of brands and styles available." The next year, a sensitivity-challenged condom executive called AIDS "a condom marketer's dream." 3 "Thin, Sensitive, Durable" Most of the condoms sold in the mid-'80s were, as they are now, latex. But another category of condoms experienced sales growth between 1986 and 1988, according to that American Journal of Public Health study: Lambskin condoms, which How to Have Sex in an Epidemic championed as "thin, sensitive and durable." Even Anne, the New York Times' attractive widow, ended up buying lambskin condoms. Lambskin condoms are also known as natural membrane condoms, or sometimes just "skins." According to Aine Collier's comprehensive history of the prophylactic, The Humble Little Condom, condoms made from the intestinal lining of mammals have been around for millennia. Sausage-makers in Europe often ran a side business making condoms. Lambskin condoms look quite a bit like sausage casings—they are thin, translucent, and slimy when wet—and, as How to Have Sex in an Epidemic suggested, they are very strong. When I first held one in my hands, at a small condom manufacturer in California, I tried to break it by tugging on it and poking at it with my fingernails, but failed. Throughout history, people washed and reused their lambskin condoms. According to Collier, the oldest surviving condom is a reusable pig-intestine prophylactic from 1640s Sweden. Reusing these condoms is probably not sanitary—don't do it!—but my point is that the material holds up to repeated stresses. Sonnabend says durability was the main reason he and his acolytes endorsed these condoms. "We recommended lambskin condoms in our original condom proposals because of informal reports of latex condom breakage during anal sex," he told me in an email. "Of course we had no definite information that condoms—latex or lambskin—were completely impermeable to anything smaller than spermatozoa." But given what Sonnabend knew at the time, it seemed safer to suggest lambskin. "The sense was that lambskin condoms didn't break in anal sex," he added later over Skype. There are four things you need to know about lambskin condoms. The first is that, yes, they are strong. The second is that they're quite expensive compared to latex: These days, a 10-pack of Trojan Naturalamb, the only lambskin condom currently available in the United States, costs about $32 on Amazon. (Compare that to about $14 for a 36-pack of Trojan latex condoms.) The third is that they can give off scents ranging from fruity to fishy to gamy. The fourth is that they feel much better than latex condoms. "Because they have the capacity to heat up to your body temperature, they transmit sensation more effectively than latex," explained a journalist in the gay magazine NYQ in an article about lambskin condoms in 1992. "Many people who have tried lambskins will never go back to latex." A condom that feels good and doesn't break would seem to be a godsend, from a public-health perspective. But lambskin never gained traction because it didn't pass the tests devised by scientists at the height of the AIDS crisis to evaluate condoms—tests that, with the benefit of hindsight, seem shortsighted. In an interview with CNN on Saturday, Beyoncé concern troll and potential presidential hopeful Mike Huckabee blamed the "militant gay community" for inciting undue backlash against religious-freedom laws passed in Arkansas—of which he is the former governor—and Indiana. "There's been more pressure this week to put sanctions on Indiana than Iran," Huckabee said. "The reason that those corporations put the pressure on Indiana and Arkansas was because the militant gay community put the pressure on them," he said. Lawmakers in both Indiana and Arkansas passed revised versions of the law on Thursday. Earlier this week, Huckabee appeared on a talk radio show produced by the Christian Family Research Council, the Guardian reports. "The left has gotten very good at creating a crisis, something to divide the country," he said. "Well, it won't stop until there are no more churches, until there are no more people who are spreading the gospel. And I'm talking now about the unapologetic, unabridged gospel that is really God's truth." As it turns out, at least some Arkansas conservatives are perfectly happy with the new legislation, which does not address discrimination directly. From the Times: Sexual orientation or identity is not covered by Arkansas civil rights law, and an attempt to extend civil rights protections went nowhere in the Legislature this year. Lawmakers did pass a measure barring towns and cities from having nondiscrimination ordinances that offer more protections than the state; a couple of Arkansas cities had adopted measures that included gay men and lesbians. "That bill was the Rolls-Royce of religious freedom bills," Family Council president Jerry Cox told the Times, referring to the original law. "The one that we have now, it's a Cadillac but it's still very good." So much for the militant gay community! "Now the time is here / For [bronze Lucy] to spread fear / Vengeance from the grave / [Spooks] the people [she] once saved" Like Black Sabbath's Iron Man before her, a statue of Lucille Ball meant to be the salvation of her people has instead become their greatest enemy, terrorizing the helpless populace of Celoron, New York. Erected in 2009, the bronze sculpture of the area's most famous resident has since inspired the online campaign "We Love Lucy! Get Rid of this Statue," for fairly obvious reasons. "I think it looks like a monster. That is just my opinion," the group's anonymous founder told Yahoo News this week. "When you see it at night, it is frightening." On Thursday, Celeron Mayor Scott Schrecengost told The Post-Journal that replacing the head of the Vitameatavegamin-soaked statue would cost up to $10,000, but the comedy golem's critics appear unwilling to accept such half-measures. "What they are planning on doing is to take the head off and put a new one on! CRAZY!" wrote "We Love Lucy! Get Rid of this Statue" on Facebook Saturday. "Once again, I urge people to NOT DONATE TO ANY FUND TO REPAIR THIS STATUE, but to wait until a proper fund has been set up to get a NEW STATUE." I am a dandy, always out to lunch, and, so, more mornings than not, getting dressed is the most difficult part of my day. I am incapable of leaving my residence until I've rendered a meticulous sartorial model of that day's polyphonous version of my internal landscape. I am rarely punctual. I will never be caught in sweatpants. "Horses sweat, men perspire, women glow"—an adage from my mother, who wanted very much for me to be a woman. The first time I met Kip, the moistness of my body lied about the warmth of the afternoon. I arrived at a seafood institution in downtown Portland fifteen minutes late for our off-the-clock, Are-You-A-Cop? mini-date, my nose speckled with sweat, the briars of my armpits slaking their seemingly perpetual thirst with the tributaries running through them. "I wish you smiled more often," my mother would say more habitually than "I love you." "You're so beautiful when you smile." When I am genuinely pleased, yes, people beguiled by cisgendered femmes, or maybe who just like me, find themselves in states of "exhilaration." It is not uncommon for them to forgive, even forget, the shenanigans, foibles, falsehoods, and sundry bits of misbehavior that would otherwise justifiably earn varying degrees of contempt. Sometimes, though, my looks do fail me. Sublimating in the almost-heat, I smiled very broadly for Kip, who'd later be the first one to bring a toy bag. His pasty hand dove into the depths of black nylon as we sat on the hotel room bed, a five-fingered drum major leading a pornographic parade of his favorite materials—a penis made of something not silicone, long, beige, of average width, and ribbed like a wife-beater; nine inches of wide-as-a-fist black dildo; a portable DVD player before the technology was even affordable and its tiny, soft-buttoned remote control; an oft-used tube of generic gel lubricant; lintless towels; and a Brazilian scat film not unlike the text that I would come to know, years later, as "Two Girls, One Cup." I always tried to be present with my clients, but, back then, when I first started, behind a calm, engaged exterior, my insides were easily distracted. Perched over Kip's pale form in the loo of that very same hotel room, it is as likely as not—perhaps while he squished his paunch into the five-star-sized-but-still-too-small bathtub or maybe while I urinated on him, watched him massage pale yellow droplets into his flesh from his beard to his pot belly, happier than a dancing cartoon hippo in a tutu. Maybe it is as likely as not that my thoughts drifted from the scene before me to the couch in suburban Orlando where a teenaged me would watch Collectible Knives on QVC and to my mother, who would walk in; look at me; and glance at the television, the entirety of her body expressing disappointment in her middle child. "You're too young to be so jaded," she would say, more habitually than "I love you." She would never know, nine years later, that there would be Albert. The name is a fiction, but it is semi-verifiable truth to say that Albert was one of my types. Neither the Bespectacled Ashkenazi Intellectual nor the Bearded Portland Hipster, not the Socially Maladroit Creative-Type With Anger Management Issues or the Female-Bodied Genderqueer Lothario With The Rachel Maddow Haircut—no, Albert was not young or particularly trim. On the fifty-side of his mid-forties; his chest, arms, and legs covered with dense thickets of chestnut fur; his head-hair like a Franciscan monk's, the pale smoothness of his pate bordered by a wreath of short, brown hair—Albert smiled like a boyish midwesterner even though he'd been on the west coast for years. The near-nonexistent thinness of his lips belied how large his mouth would seem when he smiled, big and so often, his eyes besieged by tiny crow's-feet that folded up like looseleaf paper fans in moments of jest. Tall and lanky with a little softness in the middle, his limbs hinted at the beanpole he must have been as a kid, long before he settled with a wife and maybe kids on a piece of land outside of Portland's city limits. I saw him three times that summer, and imagined a teenaged version of him that must have been coltish and beautiful. When Albert emailed me, it was mid-June, consistently hot already, and I was two weeks back into the business. Having fed my name's placement outside of a wood-panelled stall in a white-collar stable, I shimmered with the resentment-inducing pleasure that can only be awakened at the commencement of three months of louche funemployment. "Good to see you are kink friendly," Albert's message said, "I am kink needy." The sentence ended with an emoticon. I rolled my eyes, damp-bodied beneath my sundress, and laughed. A significant percentage of the emails I received in the course of my career never culminated in the booking of a hotel room and the reservation of my "time and companionship," the commodities for which I was ostensibly paid. The font of time-wasters is inexhaustible, so the trick is to treat every query like it's earnest, like there's a well-intentioned person who needs your help and a bottomless pit of art-funding money, side by side, at the other end of the screen. It requires an almost-Taylorist discipline that borders on the miserly, but being firm about the time one spends communicating virtually preserves a sensible minimum wage. Over the course of seven emails—from his first to my "yes" to our exchange of logistical details—Albert followed directions better than most: he provided me with his handle on the message board where he'd seen my advertisement, gave me two references instead of just one; he was polite. I conducted all of my business over email because I hate talking on the phone and the medium enabled me to screen prospective clients better than a phone conversation could. Most of my clients were able to competently string together enough nouns, verbs, adjectives, and conjunctions—correctly spelled—to make a complex-compound sentence. Repeated and/or egregious syntactical errors vex me—petty and bougie, it's true—and I had the luxury of not taking clients who vexed me at first blush. Albert could spell; his persistent fondness for emoticons, I forgave. "Do I need to bring my 'equipment' bag?," Albert asked in his third email, "My main interests are in non-metallic (rope, leather, other, etc.) bondage." The unnecessary quotation marks around "equipment" endeared him to me, and I told him some version of what I told everyone: "You should bring any accoutrements that will facilitate your enjoyment of our time together." For completely understandable reasons, most providers don't let hobbyists tie them up. Albert was my only exception. As an aesthetic phenomenon, whether for fun or fun and profit, the erotic encounter is an experiential laboratory with almost-catholic jurisdiction. At a play party or after a date; when I am alone or after the unsealed, white envelope is on a table or in a drawer, the seemly frost of my electronic epistles and outermost carapace gives way to belly laughs, conspiratorial whisperings, the panting grins common to euphoric dogs post-sunny day sprints. Anxieties fade and somewhere in the roaring hush, I am a woman—confident and vibrant, luminous and unreserved—the woman I can rarely consistently be in my non-work life. The testing of nascent hypotheses, the modulation of reliable methods—I have been called, I believe I am called, because, of all the things at which I excel, it is only these things that permit me to gain a more expansive and evidence-based understanding of myself. Having shed its skin of self-censure, molted zeal's new militant coat vests me with the desire to evangelize, somewhat imperfectly, by example. As I trust my play partners not to injure me during the kicking and caning that make my stomach a crumpled paper ball of excitement, hurling curses shrouded in giggles, so my clients trusted me not to judge them for being fat or old, homely or balding, mousy or lonesome. I'm charming without being submissive, patient without being a pushover, and comely without the fundamental snottiness ingrained in most of those assured of their beauty from birth. Conventional beauty, above-average intelligence, and vertiginous salaciousness are obvious assets, but I think, or, at least, like to think, that, at the substratum of my allure, rests an exhaustive knowledge of the contours of shame that permits me, ever increasingly, to revel in the lavishness of my imperfections, instead mincing them into everythingness with an analytical santoku. Self-compassion, I have learned, is communicable. The first time I heard "Where were you twenty years ago?" I was astride a portly middle-aged man with self-esteem-crippling erectile dysfunction and we were both struggling for air. Swiping at my forehead with the back of my hand, I laughed, and then we both did. "I was four," I said. Shortly before the unconcealed afternoon sun slid from Gemini to Cancer in preparation for the start of my twenty-sixth year, I arrived at a boutique hotel near the Willamette River, an hour early, to prepare the votary and ready the temple. Lining the drawer of a bedside table, I arranged in a manner that pleased my eye the instruments brought in my own toybag—latex and polyurethane condoms; black nitrile gloves; organic, glycerin-free, water-based lube; dental dams; silicone toys; and my trusty Hitachi Magic Wand, the one that would meet its death, two years later, in the prolonged, island-hopping battering of an elderly carry-on suitcase. "If you scroll through someone's iPhoto really fast," a friend said a few days ago, "you can get a pretty accurate synopsis of a life." Pictorial simulacra of the tealight-stippled tableau I crafted that day sit near the temporal and digital centers of a text composed solely of photographs of every lodging I've stayed in for the past six years. The visual artifacts from the month before I'd find myself naked in the semi-dark with Albert were of barely indistinguishable chambers in business hotels from D.C. to Cleveland. On Wednesday, a court in Dresden, Germany, sentenced 56-year-old Detlev Guenzel to eight and a half years in prison for the apparently consensual murder and dismemberment of Wojciech Stempniewicz. Guenzel met Stempniewicz, a 59-year-old businessman originally from Poland but living in Hanover, on a cannibal fetishist website and arranged to rendezvous at Guenzel's bed and breakfast, the Pension Gimmlitztal in Hartmannsdorf-Reichenau, near the Czech border. Guenzel, a father of three and a former cop who served as a handwriting expert in Dresden for three decades, has been described as a kind and courteous person. (His partner of ten years never knew about his proclivities and left him, going into hiding soon after his crime emerged.) But unbeknownst to many, he'd been exploring an interest in consensual cannibalism for some time. The two men began messaging over the fetish site in October 2013, in a thread titled "Schlachtfest," a German term for a feast after a pig's slaughter. Stempniewicz referred to himself as "Heszla-Longpig," the latter part of the handle referring to colonial explorers' euphemism for human flesh eaten by cannibalistic societies. The records clearly showed both men's intent and consent. "The victim had been fantasizing about being killed and eaten by someone else since his youth," the Daily Mail quoted Dresden Police Chief Dieter Kroll as saying soon after the death in 2013. They eventually met on November 4, 2013. The details of Stempniewicz's demise remain fuzzy and were contested at trial, but Guenzel clearly dismembered his corpse and buried the cubed remains in his garden, making a 50-minute home movie of the act. During the trial, police played the video, deleted but reconstructed by the authorities, behind closed doors. It showed Guenzel, in his underwear and covered in blood, listening to pop music as he hacked at Stempniewicz's corpse, occasionally stopping to listen for a heartbeat. Because the victim's corpse was so badly mutilated, no one could determine the cause of death, which became the trial's main point of contention. The defense tried to prove that Stempniewicz had choked himself to death in Guenzel's sex dungeon, which would mean that Guenzel had only "disturbed the dead" by hacking him up with a knife and electric saw. Guenzel was found guilty of murder in the end, but his sentence was lighter than the one the state was seeking. All the headlines surrounding this case talk about "cannibalism," but it's arguably a better example of the odder and more modern phenomenon of vorephilia. Vores, as people like Guenzel and Stempneiwicz are known, are people who derive satisfaction (sexual or otherwise) from the thought of eating, being eaten, or watching people or animals eat each other. A rare enough proclivity that they don't show up in the DSM, vores can still be broken down into subcategories: Some like the thought of being swallowed into a man's scrotum through his urethra, some enjoy images of women being trussed up to roast in the oven, and so on. Those who are into gory depictions of actual cannibalism are an extreme minority, and, obviously, hardly anyone actually acts on these fantasies, even if they have them. The few accounts of self-identified vores recorded by clinicians describe them as basically normal individuals. Often they do not conceive of their desires as a wish to murder or be murdered, but an obsession with the idea of being taken in wholly by another person. Historically, it's been difficult for vores to explore or indulge their fantasies. But as it has with so many obscure subcultures, the internet has brought vores together in a handful of forums like the infamous Cannibal Cafe (which was shut down by German authorities in 2002) and the still-active extreme fetish space Dolcett Girls. Most individuals use these websites to play around with Photoshop, find fantasy films, and exchange messages with each other, never intending to act out their desires. But a few have used these digital spaces to find each other to actualize cannibalistic tableaus in recent years. Guenzel's case was not the first successful meet-up of willing chef and entrée to make headlines—not even the first in Germany. Back in 2001, a computer technician Armin Meiwes killed and ate a man who apparently wanted to be eaten. Meiwes became a famous case study for psychologists interested in vorarephilia, and he had no problem candidly describing his impulses as arising between ages of eight and 12. An intense sense of loneliness and abandonment led him to start thinking about eating his school friends, a compulsion nurtured by horror films and watching his neighbors slaughter farm animals. Although often described as a user of Cannibal Café, Meiwes actually used a private gay cannibals forum to post about 60 advertisements in search of a willing young man to be eaten while designing a windowless slaughter room equipped with a cage, meathooks, and other accouterments in his farmhouse. Eventually, he found Bernd Jürgen Armando Brandes, an engineer who was really into the prospect, and started exchanging extremely sensual and sickening messages with him. "Warm blood flows... I don't have any chance to escape my slaughter at the last moment," wrote Brandes in one message. "It's a real turn-on, the feeling of being at your mercy, being in your possession. Having to give up my flesh." "It'll be awesome, anyway," replied Meiwes, "your tasty body on show like that." Meiwes described his slaughter of Brandes in graphic detail, and took a two-hour video of the whole affair. Both men worked together to amputate Brandes's penis, found it too touch to eat, fried it in his own fat and spices, but deemed it inedible. Then Brandes, who'd taken 20 sleeping pills and drunk half a bottle of schnapps after openly consenting to his murder, allowed himself to slowly bleed to death in a warm bath while Meiwes waited, before finally stabbing him in the throat. Miewes whispered to the corpse in the video as he carved it into 66 pounds of flesh, which he froze and then ate over the course of ten months before his capture. An Austrian college student doing research found one of his advertisements, seeking a new victim, and turned him over to police who found 15 pounds of Brandes remaining in the murder's freezer. At his trial, psychiatrists determined that neither Meiwes nor Brandes were, so far as they could tell, mentally ill. Meiwes also tried to draw a line between murder and cannibalism, stating that he didn't really want to kill Brandes, but did want to eat him, saying that the experience was a merging of souls that allowed him to take on some of Brandes's characteristics and skills, like speaking better English. In the end, in 2004 the courts gave him eight and a half years in prison, but public outrage led to the trial being reopened. In 2006 he got life in prison instead. Meiwes now claims that he regrets his actions, has become a vegetarian, and speaks out about voreraphilia in order to dissuade others from acting out their fantasies and desires like he did. More common are cases of consensual cannibalism gone awry. In 2011, an unnamed Swiss man figured out that the Slovak man he had been discussing fantasies with was serious about acting on his impulses and turned their meet-up into a police sting, resulting in the eater's death in a gun battle. Last year, Dale Bolinger, a nurse in England, had tried to meet up with an underage girl he met on the Dark Fetish Network to eat her, claiming that he'd eaten other young women before, resulting in an FBI sting against him. Perhaps the most interesting vore-related case was that of the 28-year-old New York police officer Gilberto Valle in 2013, who never acted on his fantasies but was charged with conspiracy to kidnap and assault women after a list of people he'd like to eat and vivid fantasies about their brutalization, rape, and dismemberment were uncover. Debates raged around whether Valle was actually a threat , or whether he was just harmlessly subverting dark but inherent impulses into fantasy in a way that wouldn't escalate. Another, more controversial, issue surrounds IRL cannibalism: Where do we draw the lines of consent between grown humans, and can they extend to behavior that is not only harmful, but deadly? "Consenting adults should be able to do whatever the hell they want to," Perro Loco, a psudonomymous moderator on vore fetishist forums, told the Awl in 2011, "up to and including killing each other. If they don't consent to it, then it's murder and not good." But to the vast majority of us if someone wants to be killed and eaten or to do the killing and eating means there's something disturbed in those individuals. And if they're mentally unstable, can they consent to anything? Such a naked, erotic desire for death is so disturbing that it doesn't seem possible for it to be treated like ordinary desire. And we're no closer to working out our collective legal, moral, and psychological confusion after Guenzel's relatively light sentence, which may well inspire further outrage. Images have emerged online that purportedly depict members of the Islamic State—also known as ISIS, ISIL, or IS—destroying hundreds of boxes of food intended for civilians. Released by Halab, or "the information office of the mandate of Aleppo," the pictures feature boxes of chicken leg quarters produced by Illinois-based Koch Foods, one of the largest poultry producers in the United States. The boxes are labeled as halal, and say that the chicken was "slaughtered according to Islamic rules." The text on the images, however, notes that the chickens were destroyed because they were slaughtered "illegally." According to The Independent, the boxes were part of a shipment of vegetables, fruit, and chicken intended for civilians that was stopped by IS security forces at a checkpoint outside Aleppo. The images were posted Wednesday to Twitter and to Mdwn.me, a file-sharing site known to be used by the Islamic State to disseminate photographs and videos. While the images have not yet been verified, they do bear the same graphics and branding featured in previous IS propaganda. The photos show hundreds of boxes of Koch-branded chicken being hurled into a ditch before being set on fire. In one photograph, a man bearing an IS-branded jacket emblazoned with the word "al-Hisbah"—referring to IS's religious police force—stands in front of a towering pile of burning chicken. The images were allegedly captured in Akhtarin, a town located northeast of Aleppo in Syria. It is possible that the chicken was deemed haram, or un-halal, because of how the chickens were slaughtered. While many meat producers in the West use mechanized slaughtering methods, some Muslims believe that anything but hand-slaughtering is not truly halal. In 2012, members of SunniForum.com expressed concern that Koch chicken might not be halal because it was machine-cut, rather than being butchered by hand. (Koch Foods did not respond to a request for comment.) San Francisco police chief Greg Suhr said Friday that he had recommended seven officers who sent racist and homophobic text messages to each other be dismissed from the force, the New York Times reports. The texts, sent between 2011 and 2012, "are of such despicable thinking that those responsible clearly fall below the minimum standards required to be a police officer," Suhr said. The district attorney and public defender's offices have both opened investigations into these officers' cases. "The characterization of these hateful statements as innocent banter is dead wrong," Jeff Adachi, San Francisco's public defender, said Friday. "This casual dehumanization leads to real-life suffering and injustice. It foments a toxic environment in which citizens fear and distrust the police, brutality reigns, and good officers are less effective." The texts came to light during a federal corruption case against former SFPD sergeant Ian Furminger. NBC Bay Area reports that two officers involved in the scandal have resigned, two have been reassigned and sent to the police commission for discipline, and four others face "lesser punishments." "This is very unusual because we're getting a view of sort of what's going on between at least this group of police officers from one police officer's private cell phone," Adachi told NBC. "We would not know this if it were not for the federal corruption trial and investigation that resulted in learning about these texts." Stavros Papamarinopoulos could've been a character in a John le Carré novel. He had arranged for us to meet at an empty suite of offices belonging to his economist friend in the unfashionable port city of Patras. This had required me to ride a bus for four hours from Athens. Papamarinopoulos is a professor of geophysics at the University of Patras. He is also the world's most respected Atlantis expert. It was a sunny Mediterranean day, and through the open windows we received the cicada buzz of motorbike traffic and a hint of a breeze from the Ionian Sea a few blocks down the hill. "I'm going to ask you a question," Papamarinopoulos said, leaning forward over the conference table where we sat at opposite ends. "Who defined science?" "Plato did, in the Phaedrus," I said. I didn't mention that I'd learned this about two hours earlier while reading one of Papamarinopoulos' essays on the bus from Athens, but I suspected that he knew. In the Phaedrus, Plato has Socrates explain how a subject can be isolated then divided into smaller chunks and analyzed until it becomes understandable. "Very good! Since you know that, you know at least part of the personality of Plato." He pronounced the name Plah-toh, which seemed to give it even more gravitas than usual. "Plato also defined mythology. He differentiated between genuine and fabricated myths. It is advisable then to ask if Atlantis is a genuine or a fabricated myth." The word myth is slippery because it has multiple meanings. The most common one, at least among nonspecialists, is something that is generally perceived to be true but is actually false (such as when Kermit explains in The Muppet Movie that contrary to popular belief, a person can't get warts from touching a frog). What Papamarinopoulos calls a fabricated myth is an invented story, the sort of tale that Plato in the Republic refers to as something "for children to listen to." The definition of myth that matters to folklorists (and Atlantologists like Papamarinopoulos) is this: a very old story, often containing supernatural elements, that explains an event or phenomenon from the distant past. These sorts of myths often include real historical truths, such as the Trojan War myth told by Homer in The Iliad, which led the 19th-century German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann to the ruins of Troy in Turkey. Among Papamarinopoulos' accomplishments was conducting seismic surveys to prove that a fantastic-seeming story from Herodotus—that the Persian king Xerxes had ordered his men to dig a canal across the Mount Athos peninsula wide enough for two warships to pass each other—was true. This is what Papamarinopoulos calls a genuine myth. Plato, in addition to stating several times that the Atlantis story is true, also says that "the fact that it is no invented fable but genuine history is all important." The most vivid and memorable elements of Plato's Atlantis story are those that describe the rise and sudden fall of a mysterious lost civilization: its huge navy, its concentric rings of land and water, its gold-plated temples, its catastrophic watery end. Papamarinopoulos took a hard look at what Plato said about Atlantis' largely forgotten enemy: Athens. "In the Republic, Plato presents an imaginary Athens," he told me, referring to the philosopher's ideal state. "But in the Critias"—one of the two dialogues in which Plato tells the Atlantis story—"he presents a real Athens." The Athens in the Atlantis tale, he added, "is proved as a reality by geological and archaeological science." Proved is a pretty risky word to use in relation to Atlantis. It is interesting, though, how Plato piles up what seems at first to be a lot of irrelevant detail about Athens in the Atlantis story. He describes how the Acropolis had once been the site of a fortified Mycenaean castle, very different from the Golden-Age collection of stone temples and buildings we see today. In those ancient times, the narrator Critias explains, warriors spent winters living communally in simple structures located on the north side of the rock outcropping. These soldiers drew water from a single spring that "provided an ample supply of good water" but was choked off when a massive earthquake hit Athens. That quake was accompanied by torrential rains that swept most of Greece's fertile soil into the sea, leaving behind "the mere skeleton of the land." Written language died out, because when "the gods purge the earth with a deluge of water, the survivors … are herdsmen and shepherds who dwell on the mountains, but those who … live in cities are carried by the rivers into the sea." For his new novel The Poser—about a young man with an uncanny knack for imitating others—Jacob Rubin spent a lot of time thinking about what makes impressions work. Pegged to the release of his novel this month, Rubin will be doing a weekly series for Brow Beat on the art of the celebrity send-up. Like many maxims, "Imitation is the highest form of flattery," exists, it seems, to quell the suspicion that the opposite is true. Impressions, of course, vary in tone. Some feel gently reverential, others openly cruel, while many hover in a squirmy turf between, partaking of both ridicule and homage. If there's any doubt to the lurking awkwardness of mimicry, one need only consult the familiar comedic set-up whereby the impressionist appears next to the imitated. Just watch SNL's Jay Pharoah doing ESPN commentator Stephen A. Smith in the clip above, with Smith at his side. Pharoah nails Smith's farcically indignant approach to commentating. It's all in good fun, but the unheimlich still pervades, especially around 3:30 when, as Pharoah launches into yet another improvised Smith riff, the actual Smith shakes his head, muttering "This is bad, man." As I argued in my first post, the best imitations seem to work from the inside-out. The mimic has been sufficiently moved or amused by the person's manner to give impersonating them a go. Not surprisingly, the celebrity impressionist Jim Meskimen recommends selecting someone you admire. Actor Simon Helberg has said that he began to imitate Nicholas Cage after being repeatedly told that he looked like the guy. And yet what begins with identification doesn't always end happily. Indeed, the paradoxical effect of the impression is to honor what was original, idiosyncratic, or exceptional by making it—through mimicry—less of all these things. Christopher Walken, the Thelonious Monk of English elocution, has long been a favorite, even staple, of impressionists. No doubt this fondness derives from a love for the great actor, but it also very literally kills the man's uniqueness. His cadence, after all this duplication, starts to look like an affectation, or algorithm. Just as passage into cliché both immortalizes and deadens a turn of phrase, an imitation seem to "retire" the imitated as a living person by reducing him to a formula, the specs for which can be simply downloaded. Something of this dynamic is at play in the following clip from the Late Show. To my eyes, the Scarface star looks embarrassed, even exposed, when imitated by Kevin Spacey. About a minute in, Pacino meekly attempts to hide behind his scarf. While this is clearly meant to be playful—and Spacey makes a point of embracing Pacino at the end—how can it not reduce Pacino to a grab bag of tics? This is the strange arc of mimicry, a kind of killing with kindness (in both senses of kindness): we seek retribution against that which has committed the crime of being interesting. This homage-ridicule combo is most palpably felt in the immortal impressions of Eddie Murphy. Murphy's strange genius is to animate—and embody—characters strictly to punish them. In his 1987 special Raw, Murphy popularized what would become the Modern Guido: The voice, like all of Murphy's, is spot-on. The celebration of "Sly" at 1:14—the pumped fist, and the perfectly altered, earnest, almost boyish voice—captures the long-unfulfilled yearning for a strong Italian figure finally answered. You can feel Murphy loving being the Italian guy—you can imagine him doing this for fun, at home. And yet, all of his understanding is a mere set-up for the punch line at the end of the clip, when the Italian is brutalized (chocked nearly to death "with a box of Jujyfruits rammed up his ass"). It's a common Murphy arc, one with two twists: He presents an unlikable character, humanizes him, then smacks him down. Take this obnoxious kid in Delirious: Again, the sheer toothy joy of the bragger makes him surprisingly amusing, lovable. Then his ice cream drops to the ground.   This pattern is tellingly disrupted, however, in Murphy's impression of his father. In case there was any doubt about Murphy's attachment to this imitation—or is inability to shake it—consider this: The father bit appears in both of his stand-up specials, Delirious (1983), for roughly ten minutes, and Raw (1987), for twelve, where it earns the coveted spot of closer. The snippet is a masterful impression, maybe Murphy's best. The weird, lisp-y machismo, the "h" inserted in the s of "so what," the "r" inserted after the b in "beautiful": the details are exquisitely observed, capturing the doomed, subjunctive mood of drink. The father mistakes the prison of alcoholism for a kind of a freedom, sputtering on endlessly. In fact, the very spaciousness of the imitation—you feel Murphy riffing, improvising between written beats he has to hit—mirrors the dubious spaciousness booze afforded his dad. It begs the question: is the imitation an exorcism or an entrapment? The bit follows the established pattern of the Rocky and ice-cream narratives, with a key exception. As in the previous set-ups, an unlikeable character is humanized, but in this case he isn't ever punished. In Delirious, the impression concludes with Murphy's father driving everyone from his house. In Raw, it ends with the father tearfully remembering a slinky he had to eat. Here the anxiety of influence latent in most imitations has become explicitly oedipal, but it's an oedipal conflict that is unfinished. Perhaps Murphy's inability to "ram Juijyfruits" up his father's ass, as it were, keeps him returning to the man, the imitation an arrested, ambivalent revenge. It, like all imitations, is never really complete, always spurring more of itself. And I would venture to guess that Murphy—who hasn't done filmed stand-up in years—when alone, still slips into being his dad. It's time to play the music, it's time to light the lights—again? On Friday, the Hollywood Reporter reported that the Muppets may be returning to television with a new series. Bill Prady, one of the creators of The Big Bang Theory, is writing a script for the pilot. Prady began his career as a writer for The Jim Henson Hour and had also tried to revive The Muppet Show several years ago. ABC is considering the new Muppets show, and THR suggests that they might announce a decision as soon as next month. The Muppets' variety television show originally ran from 1976 to 1981, followed by its reprisal, Muppets Tonight, from 1996 to 1998. After the success of the recently rebooted Muppets movies, I can't imagine anyone saying anything bad about this news. (Well, except for you, Statler and Waldorf.) Not since John McCain selected Sarah Palin as his running mate have the vetting capacities of a powerful political force been cast into such doubt. When Trevor Noah was announced Monday as the next host of satirical powerhouse The Daily Show, most observers had little familiarity with the 31-year-old, South African–born comic, save perhaps for his three awkward appearances on the program with current host Jon Stewart. The New York Times piece announcing the succession threw up a few vague red flags (Comedy Central never auditioned Noah, who provided reporter Dave Itzkoff with a weirdly self-aggrandizing non sequitur comparing himself to Beyoncé). But the excitement of a fresh face bringing a unique perspective to a hallowed franchise (Noah's mother is black and his father is white, which made their union illegal in South Africa's apartheid era), combined with Stewart's full-throated support, seemed like endorsement enough. Then people—notably BuzzFeed's Tom Gara—started combing Noah's Twitter feed. There were tweets that showcased Noah's breezy anti-semitism.  And lower Jew tolerance? RT @UnreaIFacts: Blue-eyed people have a higher alcohol tolerance. — Trevor Noah (@Trevornoah) October 22, 2012 There were tweets that put a spotlight on the polyglot Noah's fluency in fat-chick jokes. There were tweets that skipped across the landscape of Noah's imagination, where women are objects to be literally or figuratively pounded.  It's true that Twitter is a space for comics to try out material that isn't fully baked. And I have no doubt that Saint Jon Stewart has some fat skeletons in his closet—after all, he took over the Daily Show from smarmy king-of-the-bros Craig Kilborn, who strictly enforced a tiresome weekly quota of "Janet Reno looks like a man" gags. But during Stewart's 16 years at the helm, The Daily Show has taken on a moral authority and responsibility that simply cannot condone this kind of bigoted and misogynist ... no, who am I kidding. The problem is not that Trevor Noah tells offensive jokes. It's not even that he routinely breaks The Daily Show's covenant of speaking truth to power in favor of speaking truth to fat chicks or Thai hookers or, as the Washington Post's Wendy Todd points out, black Americans who give their kids names that Noah disapproves of. The problem is that Noah's jokes are so annihilatingly stupid. Are they even jokes? Are they meta-jokes, like the "My arms are so tired" airplane joke he made on his first Daily Show appearance? Or did he mean that as a joke, too?!? Trevor Noah: ontological mystery. Maybe his hiring is a form of basic-cable performance art. Maybe Jon Stewart just wanted to blow the building up as he strolled away with his shades on. No one will ever know. But Comedy Central's haste and lack of due diligence amid so much eminently qualified talent—your Jessica Williamses, your Aasif Mandvis, your however many other fresh-faced unknowns with unique perspectives—is a surefire way of alienating your audience. Almost as surefire as dismissing an entire swath of that audience with one thunderously idiotic tweet among many. When flying over the middle of America the turbulence is so bad. It's like all the ignorance is rising through the air. — Trevor Noah (@Trevornoah) June 24, 2013 For artist Christine Sun Kim, sound is a "ghost." The multiple-MFA-holding Senior TED Fellow who has had a Whitney Museum residency and exhibited at MoMA, has been profoundly deaf since birth. The sonic hush in which she lives has pushed her towards exploring sound through her work in a varied oeuvre of performance, installation, drawing, and video. Initially, Kim strove to translate sound into direct visual terms. She experimented with vibrations, placing coated paintbrushes and inked quills on wooden boards atop subwoofers and speakers pulsing with ambient noise. Her process resulted in lovely minimalist paintings, audibles turned objets d'art. But the project felt like translating a text using only half the alphabet. "Low frequency sounds—vibrations—only make up a very small fraction of the sound world," she explains. When it came to capturing the rich tapestry of Kim's lived experience with sound, this approach fell short. Recognizing that facilitating paint-stained traces of vibrations was only one component of making the sonic visible, Kim tried a different tack. The artist produced her own semiotics of sound by piecing together a tangle of overlapping languages and systems, including musical notation, body language, and American Sign Language (ASL), which she describes as similar to sound in its intrinsic spatiality. Her information system make the rigid definition of sound as anesthetized vibrations meeting a hearing ear feel nothing short of antiquated. It does this by capturing life in a world where sound is funneled more through social interactions than through ears. Because of this, experiencing her work is similar to the moment when one realizes listening to the same song in the dark is different than hearing it in the light. Kim spent much of her life mirroring others' relationships to sound in an effort to follow a culturally dominant "sound etiquette." Growing up animated in a less effusive Korean family (a facet, she points out, of both Korean and hearing cultures), Kim learned quietness—"to tone it down"—in response to eyes upon her. "At first I thought I experience sound mostly through vibrations, but I realized it's much more than that," she explains. "I'm mostly informed by the way people react and behave around it and then I in turn mirror them, sometimes out of good manners." In her artistic practice, Kim strives to reclaim sound, to carve out a space where sound doesn't revolve around some borrowed etiquette, but instead around her own distinct experience. Avant-garde composer John Cage declared sound to be the most public of senses, and it hasn't been a private experience for Kim. To the contrary, she describes the deaf community as a "collective culture." Built through a shared experience of sound and language, the deaf community has its own sound etiquette: for example, the artist explains, if someone joins a table, it is customary that people move back their chairs to let the newcomer in without looking up, so those at the table can continue to watch whomever is signing. Regardless of her audience, a predilection for the communal is in Kim's nature, and her art is frequently collaborative and participatory. "I often collaborate with others in order to make my voice known or relevant," she says. "People are almost an extension of myself, namely sign language interpreters." Collaboration was integral to Kim's recent sonic performance piece Fingertap Quartet. In putting together the piece, the artist provided a list of 12 specific sounds to her musician friend, Dev Hynes of Blood Orange (a later version featured voice samples by Jamie Stewart of Xiu Xiu). Kim remarks: "I trusted [Dev] enough to make voice samples based on my instructions and I did not ask anyone to double-check for me. Conceptually, I leased his voice." Using the voice samples, an audio recorder, a laptop, and transducers, Kim created four sound files. With projected text, she communicated the concept underlying each sound file to her audience: "Like/Good," a sound you like and think is good; the converse sound, "No Like/No Good"; "Like/No Good," a sound you like but suspect might not be good; and a sound you don't like but suspect might not be good, "No Like/Good." Kim's participatory performances "have a lot to do with the social value of each person's voice," she explains. In Subjective Loudness, 200 Tokyo residents helped Kim convert a list of 85-decibel noises into a score, effectively "becoming her voice." For 4x4, Kim invited four individuals whose voices she respects—an entrepreneur, an artist, a designer, and a musician—to sing her lyrics. Kim then distorted the voices by playing them at a frequency below human hearing range; for a night, a Stockholm gallery space was filled with her inaudible song as its low frequencies rattled the gallery's windows and doors. In Face Opera, one of Kim's favorite works (interestingly, her preference is for her performances), the artist and a group of her friends—all prelingually deaf—formed an unconventional choir. Upon Kim's cues, a "conductor" moved his or her eyebrows, mouth, cheeks, and eyes to convey a concept. To perform Kim's score—which was separated into acts like "I want to trust you" and "Grass"— the "singers" echoed and responded to the nuances of the conductor's facial markers. Kim estimates that 30 to 40 percent of ASL is manual production while the rest is expressed through the face and body movements. Face Opera alluded to the extent to which ASL relies upon facial expression and implied that attention to the nuances of facial expression can constitute hearing. Kim's work is conceptually strong, but its real power comes from the way it honors and dignifies her own experience. In the perceptual regime that is hearing culture, Kim tells dominant sonic norms to go screw themselves. They represent a limiting etiquette, not her actual relationship with sound. As Kim pointed out in a past TED interview: "It was not like society gave me a clear, safe space to do whatever I wanted. I had to learn how to integrate their ways." Kim's art doesn't acquiesce. It makes its own rules, taking sound on her own terms. And yet, even though she doesn't aim to be political and is more focused on expressing her personal trajectory, when reflecting on her art, one could point to that rallying cry of second-wave feminism: "The personal is political." The mentality that imbues Kim's work came front and center at a recent TED2015 conference. At the conference, Kim tried on a prototype of a vest—both a vest in the traditional sense and a handy abbreviation for Versatile Extra-Sensory Transducer—that translates sound into vibration patterns. The vest is intended for the deaf as an alternative to the invasive cochlear implant. Kim thinks that the vest could be useful. With it, she could localize sound in space, which would help her plan and develop future sound installations. But in a recent interview with TED Fellow Renée Hlozek, Kim made an apt point, asking: "Why should I receive training on how to recognize speech through vibration patterns? I'm falling into the same behavioral trap again. The vest is mediating communication, but the problem is it's only mediating it one way, making the hearing people understood by me." Kim's art represents one small chip in that normative block. We've all heard of Hooters. The restaurant where servers wear uniforms consisting of tight orange shorts and cleavage-bearing owl-emblazoned tank tops has been a cultural icon since the pub-food chain first opened back in 1983. Since then, the delightfully tacky eatery has spawned a full-on trend in the food industry—referred to colloquially as breastaurants. Many of these newer chains have latched onto Hooters' concept of hyper-sexualizing their waitresses by enacting increasingly skimpy uniform policies. Other than Hooters, some major breastaurant chains in America include the Tilted Kilt and Twin Peaks, which features both a David Lynch reference and waitresses in minuscule, campy gear. These establishments are doing better than average sit-down joints in the US right now. Especially Twin Peaks, which was the fastest-growing chain in the US in 2013, according to Bloomberg Business. However, the breastaurant business is not as booming in Canada. In Calgary, for example, one Tilted Kilt and two Hooters restaurants shuttered their doors this year because of a lack of customers. In a Metro News piece on the closing of these breastaurants, locals attributed the shutdowns to the fact that these kinds of places don't represent the "sex positive" culture that is developing in the city. Some of these Canadian breastaurants have also been the target for sexual discrimination complaints. In 2004, a woman who worked at a restaurant that required her to wear a bikini top at a special event was given $6,000 to settle a complaint with the BC Human Rights Tribunal. Other than the sexual discrimination issues—there aren't any popular restaurant chains that require men to wear scantily clad outfits—breastaurants create an unbalanced power situation in which harassment can easily occur. These eateries, which are common locations for bachelor parties and nights out with the guys, construct environments with a sense of sexual entitlement for customers, and sometimes even male staff members. I spoke to one woman who used to work in management at a breastaurant chain in Canada and wanted to remain anonymous—let's call her Mary. She said that she had been harassed by a male superior. "He opens the back of my dress and just kind of does an, 'Ooooh!' I'm just standing there like, What the fuck just happened?" Mary said. Though she said she considered going to the labor board over various issues with this superior, she eventually just ended up quitting to work at a regular restaurant. It isn't just staff who engage in this kind of behavior. Mary, who previously worked at various breastaurants in Canada, explained what goes on with customer interactions. "You'd always get the couple of girls who loved the attention. I remember we hired this new hostess... She'd let [customers] smack her ass," Mary explained. "That's great that you're fine with this, but he's going to have a couple more drinks, and someone else is going to walk by, he's going to do it, and he's going to get a beer in his face." Another source, who we'll call Leah, said at one Canadian breastaurant where she worked, some waitresses would not wear underwear beneath their skirts and would bend over in front of customers in an effort to get more tips. Though actual sexual contact with customers is against policy at chain breastaurants, the women I spoke to said they were encouraged to flirt with and lightly touch the shoulders of customers, and stay after their shifts to drink with them. This created a sort of power dynamic between the waitresses and customers, where many men came to treat their waitresses as modern-day serving wenches. "They just kind of come there to bully you, and you're sitting there in underwear, essentially, trying to make conversation with them," Mary said. Additionally, maintaining the perfect physical appearance in a skimpy uniform is key for working in a breastaurant. Mary, who worked in management, said one waitress was fired for gaining 15 pounds. She had 30 days to correct the weight gain (that's half a pound a day), and when she failed, she was let go. Besides the pressure of maintaining a certain physical appearance, some of the other waitresses at the breastaurants Mary and Leah worked at would get drunk or do drugs on the job, sometimes in an effort to deal with the environment. "It's just like a cesspool: You get stuck just drinking and partying because that's the type of environment you're in," Leah said. "So it does obviously fuck you up as a person a little bit." But she also said that while she was working at breastaurants (she worked at two different ones), she could make anywhere between $400 and $700 per night—essentially the only reason she was there. After a blowup with management over wanting to put a sweater on because she was cold (she was in Canada, for fuck's sake), Leah quit on the spot. She now says she has to bust her ass waitressing at a regular sit-down restaurant to make half of what she did in tips at a near-titty bar. Though the breastaurant trend may be fading in Canada, uniforms at sit-down restaurants across the country are still teetering on the edge of sexual discrimination. At restaurants such as Earls Kitchen and Bar and Moxie's, there are uniform requirements that differ for female and male employees: The trend is leaning toward waitresses wearing tighter, more revealing clothing. But the setting of breastaurants is a unique one in which the sexist power dynamic between male customers and female waitstaff is magnified tenfold. Mary, who now works at a regular restaurant where she wears a tight v-neck shirt and a skirt, says that the environment is a lot better at her new job. "The customers that come in [at my current job] are generally the financial-type crowd, and the level of respect is high," Mary says. "Regulars come in because they enjoy our personalities for the most part, as opposed to checking out our half-naked bodies." On at least two occasions in March, Sheriff's Deputy Scott Neu allegedly used threats of violence and rape to coerce inmates—including 150-pound Rico Garcia and 350-pound Stanley Harris—to square off against one another in an out-of-sight hallway in the bowels of San Francisco County's main jail. Four other deputies reportedly wagered on the bouts. The resulting injuries were minor, as Neu apparently prohibited hitting in the face. But the deputy allegedly instructed the two men not to seek medical treatment for their wounds, and threatened to thrash them if they did. The disclosure by the local public defender's office prompted national headlines about the violence in the San Francisco County system—which likely has been going on for some time, including more fights and other forms of physical abuse. But what's unusual about the San Francisco fights is not that they occurred—violence between inmates and guards is routine in prisons across the country. What's truly weird is that the matches were in a county jail, not state or federal prison. "It was shocking for it to be at 850 [the county jail's downtown address on Bryant Street]," says Eli Crawford. At one time Crawford was a part of a notorious African American prison gang, the Black Guerilla Family. Now, decades later, after about 30 years in federal prison—Crawford jokes that he toured the country on the US government dime—he runs Raw Talk, a program that helps at-risk men and women change their lives. "I know a guard who used to work downtown [at the jail]," Crawford says. "He called me the other day because he was really fucked up about [the gladiator matches]. You know, because you got these new deputies in here now. These younger guys who've never really been through any of this. They've changed the whole nature of the county jail system—and [Sheriff Ross] Mirkarimi, he's not paying attention." One reason county jails are unlikely venues for guard-organized fights is that the institutions—and the people inside—aren't as dedicated to the criminal mentality as those in state and federal prison. Simply put, there are fewer killers and other violent men in county jails than prisons. And any uncompromising thugs that happen to locked up in county are only there for a little while as they awaititrial. "In county jail we're talking about the low levels of criminals, people doing wino time," Joe Loya, a retired bank robber turned author, says. ("Wino time" is prison slang for any stint that's shorter than a year, Loya explains.) "To the prisoners [in jail] they are still people who aren't dedicated to the convict code. It's easier for them to [snitch]." State and federal prisons are a different story. Perhaps the most egregious example in recent history of guards orchestrating fights among inmates was also in California. In 1996, a number of prison guards at Corcoran State Prison in the San Joaquin valley blew the whistle on abuse dating back years, which included arranging fights in one of the yards. Many of the others go unreported, according to Loya, because of the code of silence that exists between inmates and also between guards. But it's definitely going on. "People are people, bro," says Jesse De La Cruz, a gang expert with a doctorate in social work. De La Cruz used to be affiliated with a Latino street gang in Northern California, and the prison gang that backs it from the inside. He's served 30 years inside state prisons, rattling off a laundry list that includes so of the country's worst, such as Pelican Bay. "These [guards], and the majority of the police don't have the ethical training," he tells me. "They walk into a jailhouse and what happens is this: The institution takes hold, and they're surrounded by negative energy on a daily basis. So if they have any dark spots, they come out. It manifests itself. They become just like the monsters that they're caging." Ultimately, eight prison guards charged by federal prosecutors for the abuses at Corcoran were acquitted in 2000, a verdict De La Cruz marvels at. "Regular people just don't believe officers are capable of that kind of violence," he says. De La Cruz suggests that scandals like the one in San Francisco and Corcoran are unusual. What's more common, he thinks, are day-to-day abuses of the power. Setting a problematic prisoner up for a nasty and violent encounter with an enemy, for example—or simply not stepping in to prevent a clobbering. "I've been part of the conspiracy to make [guard-sanctioned assault] happen," says Loya, the retired bank robber, who served time in federal prisons across the country. "I know it can happen, I know the human material needed to make it happen. Prisons are corrupting, toxic places that cannibalize those who live and work in them." The gladiator matches aren't isolated to California. Across the country in St. Louis, a 2012 lawsuit alleged that at least two guards, and possibly more, coerced prisoners to fight one another. Using the promise of special privileges, extra food and snacks, the guards reportedly bribed attackers into fighting others, and like in San Francisco, are accused of making bets on the results. "For a guard it's easy to, you know, get in the ear of a gang banger to promise commissary, or phone calls in exchange for a fight," says Crawford. "The guards know that these young guys don't know anything." Despite the uproar over the San Francisco scandal, violence and abuse within American prisons is not likely to change any time soon, according to the ex-cons and experts I canvassed. The real issue is the environment—the jail or prison institution itself. A now–famous Stanford Unviersity experiment published in 1973 by Philip Zimbardo and a research assistant sought to recreate the experience of incarceration for both the jailers and prisoners, and thrust a group of otherwise healthy and non-criminal students into the situation. Essentially, the "guards" quickly grew went off the rails, but they were not permitted by the researchers to use physical violence, and so instead verbally attacked the "inmates." The power, in other words, went to their heads. "Prison really is a matter of the strong survive, the weaker members get preyed on," says Rachyll Dempsey, a forensic psychologist who used to conduct mental health evaluations at San Quentin state prison. Dr. Terry Kupers is a psychiatrist at the Wright Institute—a clinical psychology graduate school in Berkeley—who's studied prisons and the effects they have on the inhabitants. He argues that there are three things needed to create the violent conditions inside the country's jails and prisons: one group of people that has all the power (guards), a second group that has none and no recourse if their rights are violated (inmates), and third, a strict code of silence—"so the perpetrators can do violence and sexual abuse without abandon," as Krupers puts it. He believes that all three conditions are present in the jails and prisons where fights occur—typically maximum security facilities, such as the seventh-floor unit in which the San Francisco inmates resided. "The solution, the remedy is that there has to be an incredibly good selection of staff, and there has to be really solid education for the guards," Krupers says. "There also has to be outside supervision, because now nobody cares. Society is locking them up and throwing away the key. And society has to take responsibility, and say you can't do that in our name." After all, despite years of reporting about guard-initiated gladiator fights on Rikers Island, violence there continues nearly full force. Neither the funding New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio has announced—tens of millions of dollars—or an investigation by the Justice Department has changed the culture of brutality in the facility. Splashy headlines about gladiator-style fighting between inmates aren't likely to spark an overhaul of San Francisco County jails, either. "It's part of doing time," Loya says. "We understand that violence is bred into jails, and designed into the prison. There are these moments."